Which festival is held in Newcastle 's Gay Community in mid-July ?
What is an annual two-day multicultural event held in Newcastle in late August ?
Where will the 2009 International Arts Fair be held ?
What festival is held in October in Newcastle ?
What cultural festival is the SAMA festival ?
Who holds an annual International Arts Fair in Newcastle ?
What genre of music is Lindisfarne classified as ?
What year was the song Fog on the Tyne released ?
What band is considered by many to be the first black metal group ?
What band is often regarded as the first folk metal group ?
What group is Newcastle native Andy Taylor the former lead guitarist of ?
Between what dates was the building on Pilgrim Street refurbished ?
Where was a cinema relocated while repairs were underway ?
How many cinemas are currently housed at one site ?
What 's the name of the United Kingdom 's sole remaining news cinema ?
Where is the Tyneside Bar located ?
Where is the Science Village located ?
What does the Discovery Museum draw attention to ?
What type of heritage does Tyneside have ?
What year saw the merger of two museums in Newcastle ?
What museum in Newcastle is dedicated to children 's books ?
What is the earliest known movie featuring scenes filmed outdoors in Newcastle ?
What 1971 film was shot on location in Newcastle ?
What genre of film was the 1988 film Stormy Monday ?
Who directed Stormy Monday ?
What famous musician starred in Stormy Monday ?
Where is Newcastle 's horse racing course located ?
What is the name of Newcastle 's basketball team ?
What 's the name of Newcastle 's speedway team ?
Where can you see greyhound racing in Newcastle ?
What famous 5.9-mile athletic event takes place annually in Newcastle in June ?
How far is Newcastle 's airport from the center of town ?
How is Newport 's airport connected to the city ?
How long does it take to get to the middle of Newcastle from its outskirts when riding the rails ?
How many passengers per year does Newcastle 's airport handle ?
How many destinations are available worldwide from Newcastle 's airport ?
What was enhanced in 2014 ?
How many Grade One listed railway stations are in the UK ?
What Queen opened the first covered railway station in the world ?
Who constructed Newcastle 's station ?
What mainline station is to the east of the city center ?
How often do trains journey to King 's Cross ?
How many hours can one expect to ride the train from Newcastle to King 's Cross ?
Where do all trains going to Scotland stop at ?
Whose trains serve destinations in Yorkshire ?
Which train company provides local and regional services ?
What underground railways cover much of Tyne and Wear ?
How many phases was the Metro opened in between 1980 and 1984 ?
What type of tunnels are constructed through Newcastle 's city center ?
What did Queen Elizabeth II open in Newcastle in 1981 ?
How many passengers a year does the rail network in Newcastle carry ?
What is the name of the current refurbishment the system is undergoing ?
What does the replacement of the ticket machines and introduction of ticket gates herald the transition to ?
What is being overhauled as part of the improvement works ?
What will be obtained as part of longer term plans for improvements to Newcastle 's train system ?
What type of train would some of the proposed new routes require ?
What major Newcastle road stretches from Edinburgh to London ?
What Newcastle road heads west to Carlisle ?
What 's the nickname for Newcastle 's A167 ?
What was renumbered in Newcastle upon completion of the Western Bypass ?
What was increased in November 2011 ?
How many bus companies provide service to the city of Newcastle ?
How many major bus stations are in the city of Newcastle ?
Who is Newcastle 's primary bus operator in the city proper ?
What is Nexus ?
What bus company in Newcastle provides the majority of services south of the river ?
What year did Newcastle first develop its cycling strategy ?
What does the local council hope will help cut down traffic congestion in Newcastle ?
What type of living does cycling promote ?
What streets are contraflows to be implemented on in Newcastle ?
What would the local council of Newcastle like to link their local bike networks to ?
Who runs a service out of Newcastle 's International Ferry Terminal ?
When did the DFDS ferry service to Sweden case operation ?
What did DFDS cite as the reasons it terminated operations ?
When did DFDS terminate its services to Norway ?
What cruise line has included Newcastle as a departure port since 2007 ?
How many LEA-funded 11 to 18 schools are there in Newcastle ?
How many of the schools in Newcastle are independent ?
What is the largest co-ed independent school in Newcastle ?
What is the largest general further education college in the North East ?
What religion is St Cuthbert 's High School dominated by ?
How many universities does Newcastle have ?
Which university has its origins in a school dealing with medicine and surgery ?
What did Newcastle University win in 2000 ?
What happened in 1992 in a UK-wide process ?
What university won the award for Most IT enabled organisation ?
How many cathedrals does Newcastle have ?
What year was St. Nicholas ' lantern tower made ?
Which cathedral is located in Fenham ?
Which church 's saint is nicknamed The Martyr ?
What did all three cathedrals in Newcastle begin their existence as ?
Which parish church in Newcastle is typically agreed to be the oldest one in town ?
What year was the latest addition to the Church of St. Andrew ?
What was added to the the church of St. Andrew in 1726 ?
What surrounds the church of St. Andrew ?
What received a battering during the Siege of Newcastle ?
Where was ITV Tyne Tees based for over 40 years ?
Where did ITV Tyne Tees move in 2005 ?
What gave its name to the 1980s music television program " The Tube " ?
Why is the building on Spital Tongues known as the Pink Palace ?
What local radio station is broadcast by the Corporation from the Pink Palace ?
What is the name of Newcastle 's first full-time community radio station ?
What radio station do the students of Newcastle 's two universities run ?
How long has Radio Tyneside been the voluntary hospital radio service ?
What Newcastle radio station is based at the Great North Children 's Hospital ?
Where does the Newcastle Student Radio station broadcast from during terms ?
What year did Charles Avison die in Newcastle ?
What title did Newcastle native Basil Hume achieve ?
Who is known as the father of the modern steam railways ?
What did Sir Charles Parsons invent ?
What country was Abhisit Vejjajiva prime minister of , despite having been born in Newcastle ?
What school did both Hank Marvin and Bruce Welch attend ?
What is Michael Carrick and Alan Shearer 's profession ?
What prize did Peter Higgs win ?
What did John Dunn invent ?
What city was former WWE NXT champion Neville born in ?
where is the Victoria and Albert Museum located ?
how many permanent objects are located there ?
when was the Victoria and Albert museum founded ?
Who is the museum named for ?
In which London borough is the Victoria and Albert Museum located ?
In what year was the Victoria and Albert Museum founded ?
Which monarchs was the Victoria and Albert Museum named after ?
Which department sponsors the Victoria and Albert Museum ?
In which year did the museum started charging free admission fees ?
How many acres does the V & A cover ?
How many galleries does the V & A have ?
How many years does the V & A 's collections span ?
Which cultures are represented in the V & A 's collections ?
The V & A owns the largest collection of which period in sculptural art history ?
The V & A has its origins in which world exposition ?
Who was the V & A 's first director ?
What was the museum originally called ?
Where was the V & A transferred to from its original location at Marlborough House ?
Which German architect was asked to produce a design for the museum ?
Who officially opened the V & A ?
What is the exact date of the V & A 's official opening ?
Who is known as the first Keeper of Fine Art Collection at the V & A ?
The use of gas lighting made what possible the year after the museum officially opened ?
In which year did the Royal College of Art gained full independence from the V & A ?
When was the Britain Can Make It exhibition held ?
How many visitors did the Britain Can Make It exhibition attract ?
Who organized the Britain Can Make It exhibition ?
The success of the Britain Can Make It exhibition led to the planning of what exhibition in 1951 ?
Most of the museum 's collection had been returned by which year ?
What did the V & A present in July 1973 as part of its youth outreach programme ?
Which musical group did the V & A present in July 1973 as part of its youth outreach programme ?
The V & A 's youth outreach programme was a hallmark of whose directorship ?
Which musical genre did the progressive folk-rock band Gryphon presented at a concert/lecture at the V & A ?
The V & A is looking to open a branded gallery in which city in Scotland ?
What is the estimated cost of the V & A branded gallery ?
Where in Dundee will the gallery be located ?
What will V & A Dundee focus on ?
When could V & A Dundee ?
What was the building that formerly occupied the V & A 's present site called ?
What was the first building erected that still forms part of the museum ?
Who designed the Turner and Vernon galleries that were built in 1858-9 ?
In which year were the North and South Courts opened ?
What does the Secretariat Wing house ?
Who was the designer of the Oriental Courts ?
What art historical style was used in the decoration for the northern part of the museum ?
Who designed the bronze doors used as the main entrance to the museum ?
What famous English physicist and mathematician was depicted in the main bronze door entrance of the museum ?
What Italian painter was depicted in the main bronze door entrance of the museum ?
Who were responsible for the interior decorations of the Green Dining Room ?
Who designed the ceiling and stained-glass windows of the Green Dining Room ?
Who was responsible for the decorations of the Centre Refreshment Room ?
Who designed and sculpted the marble fireplace in the Centre Refreshment Room ?
Who was responsible for the decorations of the Grill Room ?
Who was brought it to work on the museum after the death of Captain Francis Fowke ?
What was the Henry Cole Wing previously called ?
What stone was used for the staircase designed by J.W . Wild ?
What part of the V & A collection does the Henry Cole Wing houses ?
In which year did the Sackler Center open ?
What technique was used to decorate the east side of the building ?
Who designed the wrought iron gates that was used to embellish the east side of the building ?
Where on the side are the two Cast Courts located ?
Where is the sculpture gallery now located ?
Who designed the plaster work in the Art Library ?
Who designed the main façade that stretches along Cromwell Gardens ?
What building materials were used to build the main façade ?
How long does the main façade stretch along Cromwell Gardens ?
What late Gothic architectural sculptural feature is found on the tower above the main entrance ?
Statues of British artists adorn which part of the tower above the main entrance ?
Who sculpted the representations of Prince Albert and Queen Victoria found in the main entrance ?
How many levels of galleries do the façades surround ?
Who designed the Entrance Hall and Rotunda ?
What building material does the entrance hall and flanking staircases use predominantly ?
Which British monarch appears above the frame around the arches and entrance ?
Which part of the museum received the first major post-war work ?
What did the museum acquire from the Royal College of Science ?
What was constructed between 1978 and 1982 to link the Henry Cole wing to the rest of the museum ?
Who designed the iron gates that decorate the new entrance building ?
What was intended for the site of the former boiler house ?
Which gallery was redesigned in the 1990s and later improved in 2002 ?
What was restored in the sculpture gallery during its renovated in 2006 ?
What was the title given to the major project to redesign all the galleries in the museum ?
A subway tunnel from the museum leads to which tube station ?
Who designed the new Medieval and Renaissance galleries which opened in 2009 ?
Who redesigned the central garden ?
The redesigned central garden opened in 2005 with what new moniker ?
What shape is the water feature in the John Madejski Garden ?
The steps around the water feature can be drained for what uses ?
Which tree species is planted in the two corners by the north facade ?
In which year did the V & A opened the first permanent architectural history gallery in the UK ?
Which institution did the V & A partnered with to open the first permanent architectural history gallery in the UK ?
Approximately how many architectural drawings does the V & A hold in its collection ?
What collection was transferred to the museum when the new architectural history gallery opened ?
Approximately how many architectural photographs does the V & A hold in its collection ?
The RIBA 's drawing collection of what Italian architect is considered the largest in the world ?
Which lone female architect listed above is represented in the collection ?
Approximately how many drawings of the Italian architect Andrea Palladio is in the RIBA collection ?
Which architect , famous for designing London 's St. Paul Cathedral , is represented in the RIBA collection ?
Which architect , famous for the India Gate in New Delhi , is represented in the RIBA collection ?
Which part of London was Sir Paul Pindar 's house , whose façade now resides in the V & A collection , located ?
Sir Paul Pindar 's house survived which 17th century disaster ?
When is Sir Pindar 's house dated ?
Included in the V & A collection is dormer window dated 1523-35 from which European chateau ?
A column from which Moorish palace and fortress complex in Granada , Spain , is included in the V & A collection ?
Approximately how many items from the Islamic world are held in the V & A collection ?
In which year did the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art opened ?
What is considered the centerpiece of the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art ?
Some of the objects held in the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art come from which European country ?
In which year was the Salting Bequest ?
Approximately how many objects comprise the museum 's collections of South and South-East Asian art ?
Approximately how many textiles comprise the museum 's collections of South and South-East Asian art ?
Approximately how many paintings comprise the museum 's collections of South and South-East Asian art ?
In which year did the gallery of Indian art open ?
Who is the gallery of Indian art named after ?
Approximately how many works of art are included in the Far Eastern collections ?
Which countries are represented in the Far Eastern collections ?
What is the name of the gallery devoted to Chinese art ?
In which year did the gallery devoted to Chinese art open ?
Most of the Chinese works of art in the Far Eastern collections date from which two dynasties ?
Which company is the gallery of Japanese art named after ?
In which year did the gallery of Japanese art open ?
The sculpture of Amida Nyorai that is included in the V & A 's Japanese art collection is dated to which century ?
Most of the objects in the Japanese art collection is dated to which time period ?
Suzuki Chokichi 's incense burner dated 1875 is made of what from material ?
Tibetan art from which period is represented in the V & A collection ?
Which South Asian island nation is represented in the V & A collection ?
The influence of India can be seen in which religious art objects from Thailand , Burma and Cambodia ?
Some of the museum 's collection of Korean boxes are inlaid with what objects ?
Some of the combs in the V & A collection of South East Asian art is made of what material ?
The Codex Forster is a collection of notebooks by which famous Italian Renaissance polymath ?
What are the three parchment-bound manuscripts of the Codex Forster called ?
Approximately how books did Alexander Dyce bequeathed to the museum ?
In which year did Alexander Dyce bequeathed his books to the museum ?
In which year did John Forster bequeathed his large collection of books to the museum ?
The papers of which famous English Victorian author are collected in the library ?
The papers of which famous English writer of children 's books such as The Tale of Peter Rabbit are collected in the museum ?
The V & A library 's collection of illuminated manuscripts are dated to which centuries ?
What does the Armagnac manuscript in the V & A library archive depict ?
Who produced the illumination for the 1524 Charter that is in the V & A library archive ?
The National Art Library at the V & A is known by what other name ?
What cataloging system was used by the National Art Library from the 1980s to the 1990s ?
What archival system is used for all material at the National Art Library ?
What type of item is the mostly likely to show in the V & A computer system ?
What is the search feature on the V & A website called ?
In which year did the V & A 's Word and Image Department began a large scale digitization project ?
What was the digitization project called ?
The title of the digitization project was a reference to which artist ?
Approximately how many images were digitized during the first year of the digitization project ?
What is the second phase of the digitization project ?
Who purchased or commissioned the works of European artists included the British galleries of the V & A ?
Some non-British works in the British galleries were imported from which continent ?
Which Italian that is credited with the creating the Baroque style of sculpture is represented in the V & A 's British galleries ?
Which artist who had a major influence on the Gothic Revival is represented in the V & A 's British galleries ?
What type of works from Asia are included in the V & A 's British galleries ?
What led to the production of tea paraphernalia such as china and caddies during the Georgian period ?
What British cultural trend during the Georgian is linked to design during the same period ?
Who is considered the leading figure in the Arts and Crafts movement ?
The entrepreneurs Josiah Wedgwood , Matthew Boulton and Eleanor Coade were influenced by what manufacturing process developed during the Industrial Revolution ?
A reaction against industrialiazation contributed to the development of what artistic movement in the late 19th centurY
Which Ancient Roman monument is replicated in full-scale in the Cast Courts ?
What was done to the Trajan 's Column replica to fit it under the ceiling ?
Which sculpture by Michelangelo has a full-size replica in the Cast Courts ?
The Cast Courts display plaster casts of what objects ?
How is the plaster replica of Verrocchio 's David displayed in the Cast Courts ?
In which year are the Meissen Vulture in the V & A collection dated ?
Who designed the Möllendorff Dinner Service ?
In which year was Möllendorff Dinner Service designed ?
In which year was the Salting Bequest made ?
Which part of the V & A collection did the Salting Bequest enhanced ?
Which three famous British potters are represented the the V & A ceramics collection ?
From which countries were the V & A 's collection of Delftware produced ?
What are the largest objects in the V & A ceramics and glass collection ?
The largest objects in the V & A ceramics and glass collection were produced during which time period ?
The largest objects in the V & A ceramics and glass collection were produced in which countries ?
How many years does the V & A glass collection cover ?
Approximately how many items are in the glass collection of the V & A ?
Where did the earliest item in the V & A glass collection come from ?
The Art Deco style of glassware is represented by which artist ?
The Art Noveau style of glassware is represented by which two artists ?
When was the main gallery of the V & A 's ceramics and glass collection redesigned ?
Who was responsible for the glass balustrade on the staircase and mezzanine in the main gallery ?
When was the main gallery for the V & A 's contemporary glass collection opened ?
Whose chandelier grace the rotunda at the V & A 's main entrance ?
To which century is the glass beaker called Luck of Edenhall dated ?
Approximately how many British drawings are included in the V & A collection ?
Approximately how many old masters works are included in the V & A collection ?
Which famous Germain Renaissance painter and printmaker is represented in the drawings collection of the V & A ?
Which famous Dutch artist who painted The Night Watch is represented in the drawings collection of the V & A ?
Which famous French artist who painted the Grande Odalisque of 1814 is represented in the drawings collection of the V & A ?
Approximately how many items are in the costume collection of the V & A ?
Which department houses the works on paper of the costume collection ?
Why is the collection dominated by fashionable clothes made for special occasions ?
In which year did the V & A received the Talbot Hughes collection ?
The Talbot Hughes collection was a gift from which company ?
When did the V & A acquired the Costiff collection ?
The Costiff collection comprised costumes designed by which British fashion icon ?
How many costumes were in the Costiff collection ?
What costumes collection did the V & A acquired in 2002 ?
Which examples of fashion does the museum continue to acquire for its collection ?
From which period did the objects in the Soulages collection come from ?
When was the Soulages collection acquired ?
What items comprise the John Jones Collection ?
In which year was the John Jones Collection left to the museum ?
What was the value of the John Jones Collection when it was left to the museum ?
To which year has the Antwerp City Hall doors in the V & A collection been dated ?
To whom has the Antwerp City Hall doors in the V & A collection been attributed ?
To which year has the Rococo Augustus Rex Bureau Cabinet been dated ?
From which country did the Rococo Augustus Rex Bureau Cabinet come from ?
Which husband and wife modern furniture design team are represented in the V & A furniture collection ?
Approximately how many items comprise the jewelry collection of the V & A ?
The earliest items in the jewelry collection come from which ancient civilization ?
In which year was Reverend Chauncy Hare Townshend 's collection of gems was bequeathed to the museum ?
Approximately how many gems in Reverend Chauncy Hare Townshend 's collection was given to the museum ?
Who funded the new jewelry gallery that opened in 2008 ?
The silver and gold collection of the V & A is divided into which categories ?
To which year is the earliest known piece of English silver with a dated hallmark is dated ?
How many tons does the Hereford Screen weigh ?
Who designed the Hereford Screen ?
Approximately how many silver and gold objects does the V & A have it its collection ?
To which year is the Gloucester Candlestick dated ?
Which material is the Gloucester Candlestick made from ?
Whose relics reside in the Becket Casket ?
To which year is the Becket Casket dated ?
Which material is the Becket Casket made from ?
Approximately how many names were signed on an online petition on the Parliamentary website in response to the closing of the Musical Instruments gallery ?
Which Member of Parliament explained how the museum would preserve the collection and keep it available to the public ?
Which museum would receive items on loans from the Musical Instruments gallery ?
Approximately how many musical instruments were loaned to the Horniman Museum ?
In which year was the Musical Instruments gallery closed ?
Approximately how many British oil paintings does the museum have ?
Approximately how many European oil paintings does the museum have ?
Approximately how many British watercolours are in the V & A collection ?
Who has loaned the Raphael Cartoons to the museum ?
Who painted the retable of St. George that is in the V & A collection ?
In which year did John Sheepshanks donated a large collection of paintings ?
How many paintings did John Sheeshanks give to the museum ?
What was the goal of John Sheepshanks considerable bequest to the museum ?
An 1821 full size oil sketch of which famous British painting was donated by John Sheepshank 's daughter in 1888 ?
The paintings donated by John Sheepshanks were by artists of which nationality ?
In which galleries are the French paintings donated by Jones displayed ?
Whose 1758 portrait by François Boucher was part of Jones bequest ?
What was one example of a non-French painting was included in the Jones bequest of 1882 ?
Whose portrait by François Clouet was included in the Jones bequest of 1882 ?
Who created the photographic series titled Animal Locomotion ?
In which year was the Animal Locomotion collection created ?
How many photographic plates comprise the Animal Locomotion collection ?
What do the Animal Locomotion photographs capture ?
Whose society portraits from the late 19th to early 20th centuries does the V & A hold ?
The V & A has the world 's most comprehensive collection of sculptures from which period ?
Approximately how many objects are in the V & A sculpture collection ?
Which time period does the sculpture collection cover ?
Which uses of sculpture are represented in the collection ?
With which museum does the V & A co-owns Canova 's The Three Graces ?
Which c1622-23 sculpture by Bernini are included in the sculpture collection ?
What is the largest item from Italy that is part of the sculpture collection ?
Who designed the largest item from Italy that is part of the V & A sculpture collection ?
To which period is the largest item from Italy that is included in the sculpture collection dated ?
Approximately how many works by Rodin are part of the museum collection ?
Who donated Rodin 's works to the V & A ?
In which year were Rodin 's works given to the V & A ?
Britain 's support of France in which war led to Rodin donating many of his sculptures to the V & A ?
Which sculpture by Rodin was not donated by the artist ?
Which British sculptor and a leading member of the New Sculpture movement is represented in the the V & A collection ?
Which British sculptor whose work include the Queen Victoria memorial in front of Buckingham Palace is included in the V & A collection ?
Which English sculptor who became the leading portrait sculptor in Regency era Britain is represented in the V & A collection ?
What sort of continental sculptors are represented in the British Galleries of the V & A ?
Who were the sculpture galleries that opened in 2006 named after ?
To which year does the new sculpture galleries now encompass ?
How are the galleries overlooking the garden arranged ?
Which two British sculptors are now represented with the opening of the new galleries ?
Which museum was among those that loaned more modern works for the new sculpture galleries ?
Approximately how many items are in the V & A 's textiles collection ?
Which continents are represented in the V & A 's textiles collection ?
What is the time period represented in the museum 's textiles collection ?
Which region is represented the most in the textiles collection ?
Besides countries of origin and date of production , how are the textiles classified ?
What is the oldest surviving European tapestry in the V & A collection ?
In which century were the four Devonshire Hunting Tapestries woven ?
Where were the Devonshire Hunting Tapestries made ?
What do the Devonshire Hunting Tapestries depict ?
Which leading English tapestry workshop in the late 17th century and early 18th century is represented in the V & A collection ?
When is the Sicilian Tristan Quilt dated ?
Who designed The Forest tapestry in the V & A collection ?
In which year was the The Forest tapestry created ?
The Art Deco period of textiles works is represented by which American artist ?
A rug by which Russian-born British designer is included in the V & A collection ?
What is the former name of the V & A Theatre & Performance galleries ?
In which year did the V & A Theatre & Performance galleries open ?
What collection does the V & A Theatre & Performance galleries hold ?
The theatre collection starts from the time of which famous Elizabethan playwright ?
The material in the V & A theatre collection is available for which use ?
Which area is responsible for the long-term preservation of the V & A collections ?
What two environmental conditions are controlled in the museum ?
What major category of conservation result in an object that is more attractive and more comprehensible to the viewer ?
Besides the V & A 's , whose collections are under the responsibility of conservators at the V & A ?
What type of conservation include providing advice on the handling of items ?
What company owns the American Broadcasting Company ?
In what year did ABC stylize it 's logo as abc ?
In what borough of New York City is ABC headquartered ?
On what streets is the ABC headquarters located
Disney-ABC Television Group is a subsidiary of what division of the Walt Disney Company ?
When did ABC first start ?
What kind of network was ABC when it first began ?
When did ABC first get in to television broadcasts ?
In the 1980s , what cable sports channel did ABC purchase ?
What company did the ABC network 's parent company merge with in the 1980s ?
How many affiliated stations does ABC currently have ?
In 2007 , what company purchased ABC Radio properties ?
How many of the network 's stations are owned-and-operated ?
What entity in Canada handles substitution regulations for television shows ?
ABC news provides content for radio stations owned by what company ?
What company owned NBC in the 1930s ?
What two radio networks did RCA own ?
What kind of markets did NBC Red serve ?
What kind of programs did NBC Red test ?
Which NBC radio network was tasked with testing new programs ?
What company filed a complaint with the FCC in 1934 concerning problems establishing new stations ?
In what year did the FCC begin an investigation in to the operation of radio networks in America
In what year did the FCC publish it 's report ?
What was the main radio network in the 1940s in America ?
What radio network was RCA using to eliminate competition in 1940 ?
To whom did RCA mandate the sale of NBC blue to in 1941 ?
What network was converted into an independent subsidiary by RCA in 1942 ?
What investment firm offered to buy the NBC Blue network from Mark Woods ?
Who was RCA president in 1942 ?
How much money did Dillon , Read & Co offer Mark Woods for NBC Blue ?
What candy company did Edward John Noble own ?
When was the sale of NBC Blue to Edward John Noble authorized ?
Who did Noble acquire the rights to the American Broadcasting Company name from ?
What position did Mark Woods take on at the new American Broadcasting Company ?
When did Mark Woods leave ABC ?
What new technology allowed ABC to pre-record its shows ?
ABC aired symphony performances by what conductor ?
What network was known for dramas such as Sherlock Holmes ?
Who was a big star that ABC was able to attract because of Magnetophon technology ?
ABC continued NBC Blue 's tradition of what ?
How much did Disney sell it 's stake in Eurosport for in 2000 ?
What network was launched by ABC in 2004 ?
When was ABC1 discontinued because of low viewership ?
What developmental network was discontinued after the shutdown of ABC1 ?
What country is ABC broadcast in , in contrast to Disney 's other channels ?
When did ABC Films begin selling programs to other networks ?
What ended the need for ABC to maintain interests in other countries ?
Where were ABC 's international networks mainly situated in the 1970s ?
Why was ABC forced to sell its interests in international networks in the 70s ?
What was the first international event broadcast by ABC ?
What country did ABC expand in to in the mid-1960s ?
What Japanese network did ABC purchase a stake in in 1951 ?
Why was NBC unable to broadcast the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II ?
Why was CBS unable to broadcast the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II ?
What television specials did ABC acquire the rights to in 2000 ?
Which awards show has its rights rotated among the four major networks on a yearly basis ?
When did a Charlie Brown Christmas debut ?
What movie awards show does ABC currently hold the rights to ?
What Peanuts special is Halloween-themed ?
When did ABC begin airing Dick Clark 's New Year 's Rockin ' Eve ?
Who succeeded Dick Clark on ABC 's New Year 's broadcasts ?
When did ABC begin broadcasting the Miss America Pageant ?
Where was New Year 's Rockin ' Eve hosted ?
What network assumed the rights to the Miss America Pageant in 2006 ?
What series is the longest running program in ABC history ?
When did Good Morning America begin airing ?
Which Proctor and Gamble produced soap opera did ABC air ?
What are ABC 's current daytime talk shows ?
When did General Hospital begin airing ?
ABC carries weekend events for what extreme sports competition ?
When did ESPN take over responsibility for ABC 's sports division ?
When is sports programming provided by ABC on Saturday afternoons ?
For what league does ABC broadcast games on Christmas day ?
During summers , for what tournaments does ABC air highlight programs ?
Who was ABC 's vice-president of engineering ?
Which channels did Frank Marx think would be requisitioned by the U.S. Army ?
In what year did ABC submit licenses for 5 television stations ?
Which channel did the 5 applications request for broadcast ?
In 1952 , how many television stations were there in the United States ?
How many stations did Boston have in 1952 ?
Who was ABC 's third major rival in 1949 ?
In 1949 , ABC had less coverage than what competing networks ?
In 1949 , UPT was forced to become an independent entity by whom ?
Who was UPT forced to separate themselves from in 1949 ?
How many affiliates did ABC have in 1949 ?
In 1951 , rumors claimed that ABC might be sold to what network ?
Noble acquired a loan from what entity to keep ABC solvent in 1951 ?
Who was the president of UPT in 1951 ?
Who was the founder of CBS ?
When was the agreement to acquire ABC approved by UPT 's board ?
When was the FCC 's sixth report and order released ?
When did the FCC approve UPT 's purchase of ABC ?
When UPT bough ABC , what was the merged company called ?
Where was American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres , Inc headquartered after the merger ?
When did WJZ-TV in NYC begin broadcasting ?
When did the FCC freeze incoming applications for new stations ?
Where did ABC construct it 's transmitter for its affiliate station in San Francisco ?
ABC bought 20 acres of land in Hollwood in 1949 that would become what studio ?
When did ABC premier the Flintstones ?
What decade marked ABC 's transition to color programming ?
Who were the creators of the Flintstones ?
When did ABC begin making family-oriented series ?
When did Walt Disney Productions purchase ABC 's shares in the Disneyland theme park ?
What network approached Walt Disney about producing color broadcasts of his anthology series ?
When did ABC and Disney 's television relationship lapse ?
In what year did ABC resume its television relationship with Disney ?
In 2000 , ABC started an internet based campaign focused on what ?
Who was hired to produce ABC 's 2001-02 identity ?
What colors was the 2001 ABC logo ?
What is the nickname for ABC 's logo from the 2000 campaign ?
Who designed ABC 's 1998 new graphic design ?
In what year did ABC stop using it 's four-note jingle for promotion ?
What image campaign was the new four-note jingle for ABC based around ?
Where is the ABC four-note jingle still in use ?
In which season did the ABC logo first appear as an on-screen bug ?
When did the logo bug begin appearing throughout the entire program for ABC shows ?
In what year was the 40th anniversary of ABC 's founding ?
What slogan accompanied the 40th anniversary logo for ABC ?
In what year did the first ABC identification card have a 3D appearance ?
What color was the background for ABC 's 1977 ID sequence ?
In what color was the dot represented in ABC 's 1977 ID sequence ?
What graphic designer designed the ABC logo in it 's most known form ?
What typeface are the letters in the iconic ABC logo reminiscent of ?
Who was the Bauhaus typeface originally designed by in the 1920s ?
When did Paul Rand 's iconic ABC logo first debut ?
What entity was rumored to be sold by ABC in between May and September 2005 ?
When did ABC announce the restructure of ABC radio ?
How many divisions was ABC radio restructured into in 2005 ?
In what year did ABC 's viewership end in 4th place behind the other major networks ?
What new Medical Drama helped ABC jump to second place in the ratings during the 2004-2005 season ?
Who was named president of Disney-ABC television group in 2004 ?
Who did ESPN and ABC sign an eight year deal with in 2005 ?
When was the new two-year affiliate agreement approved ?
Who was the Chairman and CEO of Disney in 2002 ?
What hit reality series debuted for ABC in 2002 ?
What reality series was the first spinoff of the Bachelor for ABC ?
What cable company removed ABC stations from it 's systems in certain markets in April 2000 ?
Who did the FCC rule in favor of in the April 2000 dispute between Time Warner Cable and ABC ?
Which major network was the most watched for the 2000-01 season ?
When was Time Warner cable forced to restore ABC stations to affected markets ?
What year did ABC 's " TGIF " end ?
To what network did Sabrina the Teenage Witch move in 2000 ?
Which network began airing the TGIF comedy Family Matters for the 1997-98 season ?
When did ABC first premiere Who Wants to Be a Millionaire ?
Who originally hosted Who Wants to Be a Millionaire for ABC ?
What company relaunched Who Wants to Be a Millionaire as a syndicated program ?
Who originally hosted the syndicated version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire ?
When was the Disney and ABC merger first announced ?
What did Disney rename Capital City/ABC after first acquiring the company ?
Who did Disney sell the four newspapers that ABC controlled to ?
Who took Thomas Murphy 's place after the Disney acquisition of ABC ?
What Aaron Sorkin created show did ABC debut in 1998 ?
For which TV season did color first become a dominant format ?
In the 1965-66 season , what place did ABC find it 's self among the other networks in ratings ?
What was Goldenson 's 1991 book about ABC titled ?
When did ABC 's New York flagship stations change their call signs ?
Where did the ABC New York flagship stations move their facilities to in 1953 ?
The WJZ callsign would then be assigned to an ABC affiliate in what city in 1959 ?
Who was appointed to be ABC 's president by Noble in 1950 ?
Goldenson proposed a merger between UPT and what network in October 1954 ?
Under Goldenson 's merger plan , what would the new entity be named ?
How much money was to go to DuMont Television Network under Goldenson 's merger plan ?
Of what hollywood film company was UPT a subsidiary of when it merged with ABC ?
What Western was a flagship program for ABC around 1954 ?
What ABC comedy had the record for the longest running comedy until being passed by the Simpsons in 2002 ?
What television show for ABC was an adaptation of the 1947 film Wyoming Kid ?
What program for ABC was a remake of the film The Boy from Oklahoma ?
Of all their agreements with Hollywood producers in the 50s , which was the most iconic for ABC ?
In what series did ABC present it 's 1950s film adaptations in ?
What was Walt Disney 's brother 's name ?
How much did Walt Disney want ABC to invest in Disneyland ?
In what year did ABC agree to finance Disneyland ?
What was the first Disney program televised on ABC as a result of the Disney-ABC agreement ?
Who lead the 1968 special programming for ABC Radio 's FM stations ?
Who was the ABC Radio president in 1968 ?
What was the name for the new radio concept designed by Allen Shaw ?
How many ABC music stations were owned-and-operated in 1968 ?
In what year did ABC launch the Movie of the Week ?
For which ABC Movie of the Week film did Steven Spielberg first gain success ?
When did the Steven Spielberg movie Duel first debut ?
What was the average budget for ABC Movie of the Week films ?
In what decade did ABC finish transitioning to color ?
The 1970s allowed which network to move in to first place in the ratings ?
What kind of data did ABC begin using in the 1970s to better target ads and programming for certain audiences ?
What football program was debuted by ABC in 1970 ?
When did Sunday Night Football premiere on NBC ?
When Sunday Night Football premiered , to which network did Monday Night Football move ?
What kind of audience share did MNF allow ABC to attain according to Goldenson ?
In what year did the FCC vote for the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules ?
What year did the Financial Interest and Syndication rules result in ABC 's decision to split ABC Films into two companies ?
Which new subdivision of ABC films produced programming for U.S. syndication ?
What did the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act ban ?
When did the ban on cigarette advertising take effect for television networks ?
Who was ABC Great States sold to in 1974 ?
Who was named the president and CEO of ABC after Goldenson suffered a heart attack ?
When did Michael Eisner first join ABC ?
What ABC series originated as short segment on Love , American Style ?
What was Michael Eisner 's main credit in his time at ABC ?
What company did Eisner become president of when he left ABC in 1976 ?
Who was the President of ABC television in 1976 ?
Who was the first president and director of programming for ABC Entertainment ?
In 1974 , what detective series debuted on ABC ?
When did Good Morning America first debut ?
What position did Fred Silverman leave ABC to take in 1978 ?
What spinoff of Happy Days debuted in 1976 ?
What television trend are Charlies Angels and Three 's Company an example of ?
The Roots miniseries was based on a novel by what author ?
Who produced the comedy-drama The Love Boat ?
How many seasons did The Love Boat run for ?
During which season did ABC first take the lead spot in television rating ?
What was the first television series to feature an openly gay character ?
Who was named the president of ABC News in 1977 ?
Besides ABC News , what other division was Roone Arledge president of ?
What is the nickname for the ABC facility built at Columbus Avenue and West 66th Street ?
When was 7 Lincoln Square completed ?
When was the newsmagazine 20/20 first created ?
Who was first appointed at the anchor of 20/20 ?
Which female anchor from Today joined Hugh Downs on 20/20 ?
Who did ABC sell it 's recording division to in 1979 ?
What channel did ABC proposed to compete with cable news company CNN ?
What news network did ABC launch in July 2004 ?
In August 1994 , which Flint , Michigan affiliate did ABC purchase ?
In August 1994 , what Toledo , Ohio affiliate did ABC purchase ?
A strike by what entity resulted in a halt to production for network programs in the 2007-2008 season ?
What game show debuted on ABC in 2007 as a replacement for striking programs ?
Who started rumors in 2008 that ABC would sell its ten owned-and-operated stations ?
Disney-ABC Television group merged with ABC Studios and what other entity in 2009 ?
After the merger of Disney-ABC Television group , ABC Studios , and ABC Entertainment , what was the resulting entity named ?
In 2009 , what did Citadel Communications rebrand it 's ABC Radio brand as ?
On December 22nd 2009 , ABC reached an agreement with Apple to make ABC shows available on what service ?
What year marked the lowest ratings for the drama Lost ?
In what year did Lost first debut ?
Ugly Betty 's ratings fell dramatically after the series movie to what night ?
What night did ABC move Ugly Betty to in an attempt to boost the series ratings ?
When did the FCC begin imposing fin-syn rules ?
ABC created what company as a syndication distributor in response to the FCC 's fin-syn rules ?
ABC created what company as a production company in response to fin-syn rules ?
What company did Worldvision sell a portion of it 's catalogue to in 1990 ?
What ABC division handles domestic television distribution ?
What was Disney-ABC Domestic Television previously known as ?
What was Disney-ABC International Television previously known as ?
What library contains the Selmur Productions catalogue ?
What were the first two stations to carry ABC 's programming ?
In March 2015 , how many owned-and-operated stations did ABC have ?
How many stations did ABC have affiliation agreements with in 2015 ?
What percentage of American households did ABC reach in March 2015 ?
When was ABC 's first logo introduced ?
What was ABC 's logo based on after the ABC-UPT merger was finalized ?
When did ABC adopt it 's iconic circle logo ?
In what year was Supernanny canceled ?
In 2011 , which program became the only ABC broadcast in 4:3 standard definition ?
Since January 2012 , all ABC programming has been presented in what format ?
What was the program in the first Children 's program block to be broadcast in HD ?
What format is ABC 's master feed transmitted in ?
What format do Hearst Television 's ABC affiliates transmit in ?
How many affiliates carry the ABC network feed in 480i standard definition ?
What is the native format for the Walt Disney Company 's US TV properties ?
What was the only drama extended for a second season for the 2010-11 schedule ?
What was the only comedy to earn a second season for the 2010-11 schedule ?
What network did ABC beat out for third place in television ratings in 2010-11 ?
What drama program was canceled by ABC after a bad midseason run in 2010-11 ?
What soap operas did ABC cancel in 2011 ?
Who did ABC sell the rights to All My Children and One Life to Live to ?
On what service were All My Children and One Life to Live revived on for one season ?
What talk show replaced One Life to Live ?
2011-12 saw ABC drop to 4th in ratings among what important demographic ?
In 2013-14 , NBC finished in first place in the 18-49 demographic for the first time since when ?
In 2013-14 , NBC finished behind what network in the ratings ?
What Comic Book series did ABC debut in 2013-14 ?
What program that aired between Last Man Standing and Shark Tank was cancelled by ABC in 2013 ?
What two comedies were featured on ABC 's new Wednesday comedy lineup ?
Shark Tank was based on what other reality show ?
What day of the week did Shark Tank debut on ?
In 2012-13 , ABC debuted a comedy Last Man Standing starring who ?
Who departed as president of Capital Cities/ABC in 1994 ?
Who initially took over as president of Capital Cities/ABC after Daniel Burke left ?
What crime drama debuted on ABC in September 1994 ?
Who was the creator of NYPD Blue ?
How many seasons did NYPD Blue last ?
When were the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules repealed ?
What French animation studio did ABC purchase in 1993 ?
What cable provider did ABC reach an agreement with in 1993 to carry it 's owned-and-operated stations in ABC O & O markets ?
What was ABC 's viewership share in 1993 ?
What radio station did ABC purchase in May 1960 ?
When did WLS launch a lineup of ABC radio programs ?
What Canadian investor sought ABC 's help in launching a station in 1960 ?
What project did Leonard Goldenson offer to invest in before the Canadian Radio-Television Commission ruled against ABC ?
ABC debuted what sports program on April 29 , 1961 ?
Who created ABC 's Wide World of Sports ?
Who originally produced Wide World of Sports for ABC ?
ABC purchased which of Edgar Scherick 's company ?
What was the corporate entity American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres renamed in 1965 ?
What was the name of the blind date concept program debuted by ABC in 1966 ?
What gameshow featuring newly married people was debuted by ABC in July 1966 ?
At what address did Goldenson secure a new headquarters for ABC ?
What percentage of prime-time TV viewership did the three big networks represent in 1980 ?
What drama from Aaron Spelling debuted on ABC in the 80s ?
What was a Happy Days spinoff that debuted in the 1980s on ABC ?
What channel did ABC launch in 1981 that focused on cultural and arts programming ?
What entity did ABC sell KXYZ to in 1983 ?
In 1984 , ABC purchased 15 % of what company 's shares in ESPN ?
In 1984 , the ABC arts channel ARTS was merged with what other channel ?
What was the resulting channel of the ARTS merger called ?
Who succeeded Thomas Murphy as president in 1990 ?
What position at ABC did Thomas Murphy stay on for after stepping down as president ?
How much did Capital Cities/ABC report in revenues in 1990 ?
In 1990 , what was the longest running primetime entertainment program in ABC 's history ?
What comedy featuring stand up comedian Tim Allen debuted in 1991 ?
What soap opera is currently featured in ABC 's daytime programming ?
What two talk shows are currently featured during daytime programming on ABC ?
Between what times does Good Morning America air on ABC ?
Who hosts the weeknight talk show featured on ABC networks ?
What are the only states where ABC does n't have a licensed affiliate ?
What is the low-power station that serves Birmingham , Alabama for ABC ?
What ABC station in South Bend , Indiana maintains digital simulcasts on a subchannel ?
What is the ABC affiliate that serves Lima , Ohio ?
What entity began producing television series for ABC in 1962 ?
What entity was Touchstone Television reorganized into in 2007 ?
Which of ABC 's main production facilities is located in Hollywood , CA ?
Which of ABC 's main production facilities is located in New York City ?
What studio does ABC own at 1500 Broadway in NYC ?
What programs are broadcast from the Times Square Studios for ABC ?
A block of West End Avenue that houses an ABC News building was renamed for what ABC anchor ?
What show did Peter Jennings anchor for ABC ?
What is ABC 's traditional VOD service currently named ?
The Walt Disney Company is a part owner of what VOD streaming service ?
When did Hulu begin offering ABC 's programs for streaming ?
In 2009 , Disney reached an agreement to buy what percentage stake in Hulu ?
When are recent episodes of ABC shows typically made available on VOD services ?
Disney-ABC Television group implemented restrictions for Hulu and WATCH ABC that made episodes available only after how many days after initial broadcast ?
What does ABC on Demand disallow for online viewers ?
When did Disney-ABC Television group implement restrictions on Hulu and WATCH ABC to encourage live viewing ?
In 2013 , ABC 's identity was revamped by what design agency ?
How many variants is the new ABC logo currently displayed in ?
What new typeface was created for ABC for use in advertising ?
What network uses a red version of the new ABC logo ?
How many primary affiliates did ABC have in 1954 ?
How many primary affiliates did CBS have in 1954 ?
What important legislation was passed by Congress for the television industry in 1961 ?
The All-Channel Receiver Act mandated the support of what kind of tuning ?
ABC had secondary status on the existing stations in what Ohio town ?
Relegation to secondary status for ABC resulted in viewership how much lower than their competitors , according to Goldenson ?
The beginnings of digital television allowed what affiliate in Wheeling , West Virginia to begin airing ABC programs digitally ?
Very small markets had to wait until what decade to support an ABC affiliate ?
What was the Disneyland anthology series retitled in 1958 ?
What production company pitched The Untouchables to CBS in 1958 ?
Why did CBS turn down the pitch for The Untouchables ?
When did the Untouchables debut on ABC ?
What was the title of ABC 's broadcast film program that debuted on Sundays in 1962 ?
What was ABC 's revenue in 1962 ?
What production company produced the animated series The Flintstones for ABC ?
What was the first series to be televised in color on ABC ?
When did General Hospital first debut on ABC ?
Leonard Goldenson announced a merger proposal with what company in December 1965 ?
What anitrust regulator had doubts about the ITT and ABC merger ?
The merger between ITT and ABC was suspended after a complaint was filed by whom in July 1967 ?
When was the merger between ITT and ABC officially canceled ?
In 1984 Thomas Murphy contacted Leonard Goldenson about merging ABC with what company ?
How much did Capital Cities Communications purchase ABC and its properties for ?
$ 500 Million was supplied for the Capital City - ABC merger by what investor ?
Capital City and ABC sold the WXYZ-TV and WFTS-TV stations to what company ?
New ownership rules by the FCC in 1985 allowed broadcasters to own a maximum of how many stations ?
When did the merger between ABC and Capital Cities gain federal approval ?
After the merger between ABC and Capital Cities was completed , what was the resulting company known as ?
After the Capital Cities - ABC merger , Frederick Pierce was named to what position ?
After the merger between ABC and Capital Cities , who became the vice president of ABC broadcasting ?
In the wake of the ABC and Capital Cities merger , who was the president of ABC News and ABC Sports ?
Which sitcom ended its broadcast run for ABC in 1983 ?
Which sitcom produced a spinoff for ABC after ending its run in 1984 ?
Which network regained the ratings lead in America in 1984 ?
What comedy for ABC ended its broadcast run in 1986 ?
ABC began to focus on what kind of series after NBC 's success in 1984 ?
What comedy block debuted in 1989 for ABC ?
What does " TGIF " stand for ?
Most of the productions in the TGIF lineup were produced by what production company ?
Miller-Boyett Productions was a studio affiliated with what company ?
New broadcast regulations from the FCC in 1968 allowed companies to own a maximum of how many radio stations ?
What was the first picture released by ABC Pictures ?
Who was the film Charly produced by ?
When was the ABC Pictures division eventually dissolved ?
Where was ABC Marine World opened ?
What kind of programs can be credited for ABC 's success in the late 1950s ?
How much did advertising revenue increase for ABC between 1953 and 1958 ?
What was the national viewership reach of ABC in 1958 ?
Who was the ABC Entertainment president in 1957 ?
Who hosted the bandstand show debuted on ABC in 1957 ?
What was the programming philosophy pioneered by ABC and Goldenson ?
What ABC action series went up against NBC 's variety shows in Fall 1957 ?
What magazine criticized ABC 's programming strategy in May 1961 ?
What kind of shows were used as counterprogramming by ABC in the Fall of 1959 ?
What service did ABC launch in May 2013 ?
What were the first local stations to offer streams of their programming on WATCH ABC ?
What company reached a deal to also stream its ABC affiliates ?
What is the name of ESPN 's streaming service that is analogous to WATCH ABC ?
What broadcast group is the largest operator of ABC stations ?
What is the biggest ABC subchannel affiliate by the size of markets ?
What is the largest ABC station operator in terms of market reach ?
How many affiliates does Sinclair Broadcast Group service or own ?
How many ABC affiliates does the E. W. Scripps Company own ?
What was the name for the imaging campaign ABC began in 2007 ?
Who developed the 2007 imaging campaign for ABC ?
Red ribbons in the logo were used to represent which division of ABC ?
Blue ribbons in the logo were used to represent which division of ABC ?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Tampa , Florida ?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Kansas City , Missouri ?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Grand Rapids Michigan ?
What was Tampa 's primary ABC affiliate prior to 1994 ?
What do we call the empire that Genghis Khan founded ?
Who did Genghis Khan unite before he began conquering the rest of Eurasia ?
In which regions in particular did Genghis Khan 's armies massacre civilians ?
What areas did Genghis Khan control at the end of his life ?
Which other empires or dynasties did Genghis Khan conquer ?
Who did Genghis Khan assign as his successor ?
What year did Genghis Khan die ?
Which empire was the last one Genghis Khan conquered before he died ?
Among whom was Genghis Khan 's empire split after his death ?
Where was Genghis Khan buried ?
Where was Genghis Khan likely born ?
Who was Genghis Khan 's father ?
What year was Temüjin , who became Genghis Khan , likely born ?
Who might Temüjin have been named after ?
What was Temüjin ' sister 's name ?
Who were Temüjin 's three full brothers ?
What was the name of the wife arranged for Temüjin by his father ?
Which tribe did Temüjin move in with at nine years of age ?
Who was the head of the household that Temüjin joined when he was nine years old ?
Which of Temüjin 's brothers took up the role of male leader of the family ?
Who would Begter have married when he came of age ?
Who killed Begter , Temüjin 's half-brother ?
When was Temüjin 's half-brother Begter killed ?
Who captured and held Temüjin prisoner around 1177 ?
How was Temüjin kept imprisoned by the Tayichi'ud ?
Which of his future general 's fathers helped Temüjin escape the Tayichi'ud ?
Which of his future generals joined forces with Temüjin around the time of his escape from the Tayichi'ud ?
Where did Temüjin hide during his escape from the Tayichi'ud ?
What was used to from political alliances among the Mongolian tribal confederations ?
Who taught Temüjin early lessons about politics in Mongolia ?
Which foreign forces often meddled in the Mongolian political scene ?
What did Temüjin 's mother emphasize in his lessons about Mongolia 's volatile political climate ?
What was the tribe of the woman Temüjin married when he was around 16 years old ?
Who kidnapped Temüjin 's first wife soon after they were married ?
Who helped Temüjin rescue his wife from the Merkits ?
What was the name of Temüjin 's wife Börte 's first son ?
What year did Börte 's give birth to Jochi ?
How many sons did Börte bear Genghis Khan after Jochi ?
What was the name of Börte 's second male child ?
What year did two of Ghengis Khan and Börte 's sons die ?
Which male child of Ghengis Khan and Börte was born last ?
How many names of Ghengis Khan 's daughters are known ?
What is an anda ?
With whom was Temüjin 's first important alliance ?
What tribe did Toghrul lead ?
How many warriors did Toghrul provide Temüjin when his wife was captured ?
Which of Temüjin 's childhood friends did Toghrul suggest he also enlist ?
Who did Jamukha support that were not part of Temüjin 's power base ?
Which shaman 's proclamation aided Temüjin 's rise ?
When was Temüjin elected khan of the Mongols ?
Which battle did Temüjin lose to Jamukha shortly after his election as khan ?
Where was Temüjin 's patron Toghrul exiled ?
What was the name of Temüjin 's laws ?
What did Temüjin promise his followers in exchange for their obedience ?
Who did Temüjin 's mother adopt to help integrate the tribes he conquered ?
What did Temüjin offer the people he conquered in order earn their loyalty ?
To whom did Toghrul refuse to give his daughter in marriage , angering Temüjin ?
Who did Toghrul join in a campaign against Temüjin ?
Who escaped when Temüjin emerged victorious in his conflict with Toghrul ?
What tribe fell apart after Temüjin defeated Toghrul ?
Who protected Jamukha after he escaped the conflict with Temüjin ?
What year was Jamukha elected Gür Khan ?
What does the title Gür Khan mean ?
Which well-known general abandoned Jamukha 's coalition against Temüjin ?
What year was Jamukha surrendered to Temüjin ?
What did Temüjin offer Jamukha after the latter 's defeat ?
Why did Temüjin kill those of Jamukha 's followers that had betrayed their leader ?
What did Jamukha request from Temüjin instead of friendship ?
What form of death did Jamukha hope Temüjin would allow him ?
From whom did Genghis Khan learn seige warfare ?
Which rival 's tribes did Genghis Khan famously measure against the linchpin ?
An important shaman was alleged to be trying to distance Genghis Khan from which of his brothers ?
What aspect of the economy did Genghis Khan exploit for intelligence gathering ?
Who was the ally of his father that Genghis Khan fell out as time passed ?
By what year had Temüjin created a significant " Mongol " tribal alliance ?
What is the term for a meeting of Mongol chiefs ?
What title was given to Genghis Khan posthumously ?
Who gave Genghis Khan the title Khadan ?
Who made Temüjin khan of the Mongols ?
What dynasty did Genghis Khan plan to attack after conquering Western Xia ?
Who was the Jin dynasty defector who betrayed the location of the Jin army ?
When did Genghis Khan capture the Jin dynasty capital ?
Where did the Jin emporer relocate his capital after Genghis Khan overran the norther part of his empire ?
Which of Genghis Khan 's sons completed the conquest of the Jin dynasty ?
Who took control of Qara Khitai after fleeing Temüjin 's Mongol Empire ?
What older dynasty was replaced by the Western Liao , or Qara Khitai ?
How many soldiers did Genghis Khan send against Kuchlug and Qara Khitai ?
Which young general did Genghis Khan send to conquer Qara Khitai ?
What other moniker was Genghis Khan 's general Jebe known by ?
What strategy did Jebe 's army use against Kuchlug and his supporters ?
Where did Jebe 's forces first defeat Kuchlug ?
How far west did the Mongol Empire extend after Kuchlug 's demise ?
Which empire bordered the Mongol Empire to the west in 1218 ?
What kind of state was the Khwarezmia ?
Who was the leader of the Khwarezmian dynasty in the early 1200s ?
Who ordered the attack on the caravan of traders Genghis Khan send to Khwarezmia ?
Which of Genghis Khan 's ambassadors did the Shah have beheaded ?
How many soldiers did Genghis Khan take with him to Khwarezmia ?
What trading route joined Khwarezmia and the Mongol Empire ?
What mountain range did Genghis Khan cross to enter the Khwarezmian Empire ?
How many divisions comprised Genghis Khan 's army in Khwarezmia ?
Where did Jebe 's division of Genghis Khan 's army campaign in Khwarezmia ?
Who led the third division in Khwarezmia alongside Genghis Khan himself ?
Which area of Khwarezmia did the first and second divisions of the Mongol army target in a pincer attack ?
What feature of the Shah 's army enable the weary Mongol forces easy early victories ?
Which town 's massacre did Genghis Khan order in retribution for the treatment of his envoys ?
What metal was used in Inalchuq 's execution ?
What did the Shah do when faced with defeat by Genghis Khan 's forces ?
Who did Genghis Khan charge with finding and punishing the Shah ?
What was the capital of Khwarezmia before the Mongol invasion ?
Where was the Khwarezmid capital moved after Genghis Khan 's forces prevailed in Samarkand ?
What does legend say Genghis Khan used to obliterate the Kharezmid emporer 's place of birth ?
What did the Mongols shield themselves with while attacking Samarkand ?
How did Genghis Khan observed the surrender terms after Samarkand fell ?
What victory symbols did the Mongols build on the plains outside Samarkand ?
How did the leaders of the city of Bukhara respond to the Mongol attack ?
Who continued to hold the citadel of Bukhara after the Mongols took the rest of the city ?
Which residents of Bukhara were spared and sent back to Mongolia ?
How did Genghis Khan describe himself to the people of Bukhara ?
Who among the population of Bukhara became part of the Mongolian army ?
What year did the Khwarezmian Empire fall to Genghis Khan ?
Whose plan called for the Mongolian army to split in two after the Khwarezmian conquest ?
Where did Jebe and Subutai spend the winter following the split of the Mongol army ?
Where was the Kievian force that confronted Subutai 's army defeated in 1223 ?
Who led the Kievian Rus ' troops against Subutai 's Mongol army ?
Which Mongol leader completed the conquest of Kievan Rus ' ?
By what name was the Mongol army that finally conquered Bulgaria known ?
Which two Mongol leaders added Persia to the Mongol Empire ?
When did Subutai 's army return to Mongolia ?
Where did Jebe die ?
In which year did Genghis Khan strike against the Tanguts ?
What season was it when Genghis Khan took Xiliang-fu from the Tanguts ?
Who won the battle near the Helan mountains ?
What river did Genghis Khan cross before defeating the main Tangut army ?
What omen was Genghis Khan reported to have seen assuring his coming victory against the Tanguts ?
What was the name of the Tangut capital ?
Who was the Tangut general who fought Genghis Khan at Deshun ?
What weapon caused the wounds that killed Tangut general Ma Jianlong ?
Where did Genghis Khan spend the summer after taking Deshun ?
What did Genghis Khan do to the Tangut imperial family after their surrender ?
The paternity of which of Genghis Khan 's sons was disputed ?
Which Mongol leader was most opposed to Jochi as Genghis Khan 's successor ?
Before which military campaign did Chagatai publicly dispute Jochi 's paternity ?
Who was appointed Genghis Khan 's successor ?
Which pair of Genghis Khan 's sons were most rivalrous ?
Which of Genghis Khan 's sons was disqualified from being successor because of his unstable behavior ?
Which 's of Genghis Khan 's successors could not be successor because of his age ?
Which son did Genghis Khan view as his most dependable one ?
Jochi 's death occurred in what year ?
Where did Jochi remain after Genghis Khan sent for his sons in the spring of 1223 ?
Which territory did Jochi try to protect that may have led to a dispute with his brothers ?
Who did Jochi reportedly enlist to help him stop his father 's massacres ?
Why is Jochi 's reported alliance with the Muslims historically suspect ?
Genghis Khan was in the process of taking what capital city when he died ?
What does the Secret History say Genghis Khan was doing when he sustained his mortal injuries ?
What weapon did Marco Pole report as the cause of Genghis Khan 's death ?
Later chronicles of Genghis Khan 's death implicate a princess from what empire in his death ?
Which rival of the Mongols is suspected of inventing the story that Genghis Khan was murdered by a captured princess ?
What was Genghis Khan 's tribes burial custom ?
Where is Genghis Khan 's presumed to have been delivered ?
What river is near Genghis Khan 's likely place of burial ?
What memorial was built years after Genghis Khan 's death and burial ?
What is the Mongolian name for the original place of the Genghis Khan mausoleum ?
Which Buddhist monastery hosted the Genghis Khan mausoleum during the Japanese occupation ?
Where did the Chinese Nationalists move the mausoleum away from advancing Chinese Communist forces ?
When was the mausoleum returned to the Lord 's Enclosure in Mongolia ?
Who destroyed the most valuable relics in the mausoleum during the Cultural Revolution ?
On which date was Genghis Khan 's palace rediscovered by archeaologists ?
What kind of water body is rumored to be obscuring Genghis Khan 's burial site ?
What two other rulers had their graves hidden under a river ?
What animals may have been stampeded over Genghis Khan 's grave site ?
Who created the code that governed military and civilian conduct in the Mongol Empire ?
What was the name of the Mongol Empire 's legal code ?
What was the guiding principle of the Mongol Empire code of conduct ?
Who was exempt from the meritocratic principles of the Mongol Empire ?
Who is an example of the diversity of leadership in the Mongol Empire ?
What perk did religious leaders , teachers , and doctors get in the Mongol Empire ?
Which of Genghis Khan 's mentors practiced Christianity ?
How was religion handled in the Mongol Empire ?
What are examples of the various religions of Mongol tribes ?
Which woman took a leadership role in the Mongol Empire while succession was being determined ?
What is the modern term for the Mongolian policies supporting trade and communication ?
Who is an example of a sedentary people who were not favored by the laws of the Mongol Empire ?
What do some modern historians claim Genghis Khan sought to add his legal code at the end of his reign ?
Which Khitan prince became an important administrator in the Mongol Empire ?
Why would Mongols have too little experience to govern cities they conquered ?
Khitan had been overthrown by which dynasty that Genghis Khan later defeated ?
Who were Chu'Tsai 's forefathers ?
Who among Genghis Khan 's subjects shared similar privileges to his close family members ' ?
What was the capital of the Mongol Empire ?
Who was delegated command of the Mongol forces against the Jin dynasty ?
Which two generals raided the Caucasas and Kievan Rus ' for Genghis Khan ?
What did Genghis Khan expect from his generals alongside the autonomy he granted them ?
What would Mongol armies divert in order to cut off the resources of cities they were attacking ?
What were the cultural origins of the engineers and technology adopted by the Mongol military ?
How did Mongol armies lure enemy groups out of their defensive positions ?
How were enemy prisoners used tactically by Mongol armies ?
What sea bordered Genghis Khan 's empire to the east when he died ?
What body of water sat to the west of the Mongol Empire when Genghis Khan died ?
Who led the most rapid expansion of the Mongol Empire ?
What year was the conflict with the Song dynasty concluded ?
To which trading route did Genghis Khan bring a stable political climate ?
In which Middle Eastern country is Genghis Khan 's title a popular name for male children ?
What was the Genghis Khan 's characteristic approach to religious diversity ?
What effect did Genghis Khan 's career have on communication and trade across Asia ?
What recent decade saw brightening of the perception of Genghis Khan in Mongolia ?
What is the key accomplishment of Genghis Khan that modern Mongolians celebrate ?
How do Mongolians sometime describe their relationship to Genghis Khan ?
What do some Mongolians feel non-Mongolian historians exaggerate about Genghis Khan ?
What is the general perception of non-Mongolian histories of Genghis Khan by Mongolians themselves ?
What is the name of contemporary Mongolian currency ?
Whose likeness is on the larger denominations of Mongolian currency ?
What is the name of Mongolia 's largest airport ?
Why have Mongolian politicians considered regulating the use of Genghis Khan 's name ?
What city is near a major statue of Genghis Khan ?
What is the Mongolian name of the first Mongolian laws codified in writing ?
What did Mongolian President Tsakhiagian Elbegdorj note was significantly punished by Genghis Khan 's laws ?
Which Mongolian president lauded Genghis Khan on the 850th anniversary of the conqueror 's birth ?
What innovation in Mongolian language is credited to Genghis Khan ?
Where in China is Genghis Khan most favorably viewed today ?
What is the population of the Inner Mongolia region of China ?
Which descendant of Genghis Khan is remembered as having reunified China ?
What Chinese dynasty did the Mongols found ?
What was Kublai Khan 's relation to Genghis Khan ?
Which Middle Eastern nation in particular views Genghis Khan as a contemptible perpetrator of genocide ?
What proportion of the general population in the area than became Iran did Genghis Khan kill ?
How many people do historians estimate Genghis Khan killed in the Iranian Plateau ?
Which descendant of Genghis Khan sacked Baghdad ?
Who halted the advance of Hulagu Khan across the Middle East ?
Which of Genghis Khan 's descendants pushed the Mamluks out of Palestine ?
In which year did Genghis Khan 's grandson invade Kievan Rus ' ?
Which major cities in Eastern Europe were not destroyed by the Mongol invasion ?
Which descendants of Genghis Khan tried to dissociate themselves from the Mongol massacres in the Middle East ?
Which Mongol conqueror was most celebrated by the Mughal emperors ?
From where was the Muslim historical figure Attar , whose murder by the Mongols was long remembered ?
Which Mongolian word meaning wide-spreading may have contributed to the appellation Genghis ?
Which massive lake did the Mongolians call tenggis ?
What does zhèng mean ?
Jenggis is the adjectival form of what word ?
What spelling of Genghis most closely matches its probable pronunciation ?
What is the Mongolian spelling of Genghis Khan ?
How is Genghis Khan spelled in Turkic ?
How is Temüjin written in pinyin ?
What are alternate English spelling of Genghis ?
How is Genghis Khan written in pinyin ?
What word is the word pharmacy taken from ?
What goods were sold in a pharma ?
What did the Greek root pharmakos imply ?
How would the word apothecary be viewed by contemporary English speakers ?
What else was used by pharmas ?
What type of professionals are pharmacists ?
What types of health outcomes do pharmacists aim for with their patients ?
What type of treatment are pharmacists important for ?
What other role do many pharmacists play ?
What types of preparation do pharmacists have ?
Who oversees a Pharmacy Technician in the UK ?
With what body must a pharmacy technician register ?
What is a main duty of the GPhC ?
What type of professional is a Pharmacy Technician considered to be ?
What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician have ?
What is Pedanius Dioscorides known for ?
What is the name of the Latin translation of Dioscorides ' book ?
What term resulted from Dioscorides ' book ?
Who was a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Ancient Greece ?
Who added to Dioscorides ' book in the Islamic Golden Age ?
How were the men who did tasks like those of today 's pharmacists viewed in Japan in the Asuka and Nara periods ?
In which two codes were the roles of pharmacists codified ?
What put a hierarchical structure in place ?
What stature did pharmacists have in the pre-Heian Imperial court ?
Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor 's personal physicians ?
Developments in which scientists influenced the creation of pharmacology in medieval Islam ?
Who was influential in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines ?
Who authored the Liber servitoris ?
Who wrote about the distillation of drinking water from sea water ?
Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq differentiate between ?
How far does one pharmacy in Croatia date back to ?
Where is the oldest pharmacy stated to be located ?
What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy used as at present ?
What sorts of items are displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum ?
In what year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been established ?
What is the dispensary subject to in a majority of countries ?
What responsibilities were pharmacy technicians formerly limited to ?
What do pharmacy technicians depend on more and more ?
What are new responsibilities pharmacy technicians now deal with ?
What does pharmacy legislation mandate ?
Where do pharmacists acquire more preparation following pharmacy school ?
What do clinical pharmacists specialize in ?
What is one issue that adds to the complexity of a pharmacist 's job ?
Which pharmacists are likely to seek additional education following pharmacy school ?
Where are many hospital pharmacies located ?
In what form are most hospital medications ?
What types of pharmacy functions have begun to be outsourced ?
What is one factor that increases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level ?
What are some advantages of hospital pharmacies ?
What do the services given by pharmacists provide ?
What is the origin of clinical pharmacy ?
Who do clinical pharmacists work with much of the time ?
What do clinical pharmacists often participate in ?
Where do clinical pharmacists work with patients ?
What is one example of what a clinical pharmacist 's duties entail ?
What is involved in a review of prescribed medications ?
What are the components of drug therapy ?
What are some other factors a pharmacist must monitor ?
What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists given in the U.S. federal health care system ?
In what states are pharmacist clinicians given prescriptive and diagnostic authority ?
When was ambulatory care pharmacy approved as its own certification ?
What will a pharmacist who passes the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called ?
What entities are included in the federal health care system ?
What is consultant pharmacy mainly concerned with ?
Where do a majority of consultant pharmacists tend to work ?
What are some large pharmacy management companies ?
What is the main reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients ?
What do some community pharmacies do ?
When did internet pharmacies begin to come into being ?
Who often operates internet pharmacies ?
What are internet pharmacies also called ?
What is one reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy ?
What is the main difference between online pharmacies and community pharmacies ?
Why might customers order from internet pharmacies ?
Who has criticized ordering from online pharmacies that do n't require prescriptions ?
What is a criticism of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription ?
What practice do some internet pharmacies engage in ?
What do most online pharmacies do ?
What is one problem with internet pharmacies ?
What conditions must be met for a prescription for a controlled substance to be valid ?
What is one problem with internet pharmacies ?
What conditions must be met to prescribe a controlled substance ?
What is the obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription ?
Who defines what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship ?
What is an example of a controlled substance ?
What is a reason for the movement to legalize importing medicines from other countries ?
What is one country that has been suggested for importation of medicines ?
Who are FDA laws against importing medications aimed at ?
Has there ever been anyone charged with importing drugs from Canada for personal medicinal use ?
What is there a push for in the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs ?
What two things does pharmacy informatics bring together ?
What fields may pharmacy informatics also work in ?
Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics meet ?
What areas are pharmacy informatics prepared to work in ?
How fast is pharmacy informatics growing ?
What is the fastest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry ?
How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2013 were specialty drugs ?
What types of diseases are specialty drugs often used against ?
What types of medications do specialty pharmacies stock ?
Besides drugs , what else do specialty pharmacies provide ?
How are pharmacists regulated in most jurisdictions ?
Who do most jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public ?
What body has stated that physicians can also dispense drugs under specific conditions ?
What is the estimate of how many physicians give out drugs on their own ?
What are pharmacists forbidden to do ?
What is another country that permits physicians to give out drugs from within their practice ?
Where are some physicians permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices ?
What is the minimum distance between a patient 's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication ?
What is the minimum distance between a patient 's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine ?
Why is majority rule used ?
Why might a physician diagnose a large number of conditions ?
What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients resemble ?
How else might a physician take advantage of self-interest ?
Where might the doctor 's self-interest be at odds with the patient 's self-interest ?
What will be the importance of the pharmacist in coming decades ?
What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking on more in the future ?
What is included in Medication Therapy Management ?
What are examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide ?
What are outcomes expected with Medication Therapy Management ?
Which provinces in Canada limit the rights of pharmacists in prescribing ?
Who pays Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews ?
What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being increasingly paid for ?
What fields have increased in influence on pharmacy in the United States ?
What degree is now mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist ?
What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in English-speaking countries ?
What symbol was employed until early in the 20th century ?
What country uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy ?
What countries use a red stylized A to signify pharmacy ?
Which countries use the green Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy ?
What is the immune system ?
What does the immune system protect against ?
What are two of its subsystems ?
What is the subsystem that protects the human brain ?
What is the immune system ?
What does the immune system protect against ?
What are two of its subsystems ?
The immune system protects organisms against what ?
What are the agents the immune system detects known as ?
Which part of the immune system protects the brain ?
What separates the neuroimmune system and peripheral immune system in humans ?
What are the agents detected by the immune system called ?
What are the two major subsystems of the immune system ?
What are the two different types of immunity ?
What is the immune system of the brained known as ?
How do pathogens avoid detection ?
What kind of immune system do bacteria have ?
Which other ancient organism formed basic immune mechanisms ?
How does adaptive/acquired immunity help in the future ?
The immune systems of bacteria have enzymes that protect against infection by what kind of cells ?
What are antimicrobial peptides that evolved as immune defense in eukaryotes called ?
The idea of acquired immunity in jawed vertebrates is the basis of what medical treatment ?
What is the ability to recognize and adapt to new specific pathogens called ?
What can result from disorders of the immune system ?
When does immunodeficiency occur ?
What does immunodeficiency cause ?
Name one of the causes of immunodeficiency .
Name a common autoimmune disease .
What happens when the immune system less active than normal ?
What is the term for a hyperactive immune system that attacks normal tissues ?
What field involves the study of the immune system ?
What acquired condition results in immunodeficiency in humans ?
What even is the earliest known reference to immunity ?
Which animal 's venom did Pierre-Louis Moreau de Maupertuis work with ?
Who came up with germ theory ?
Who discovered the Yellow Fever virus ?
Who won the Nobel Prize in 1905 ?
What did Robert Koch prove was the cause of infectious disease ?
What virus did Walter Reed discover ?
When was the first known historical reference to immunity ?
What is another name for an immune system 's improved response ?
Which system comes after an organism 's physical barriers ?
What protection comes after the innate response ?
What type of immune systems are found in all plants and animals ?
What immune system is activated by the innate response ?
What allows the adaptive immune system to react faster and more strongly each subsequent time a pathogen is encountered ?
What is the first line of defense against pathogens that prevents them from entering an organism ?
The adaptive immune system must distinguish between what types of molecules ?
What molecules are parts of the body of an organism in immunology ?
What molecules are recognized as foreign by the immune system ?
What term is shorthand for antibody generators ?
Antigens bind to what in order to elicit a response of the immune system ?
What part of the innate immune system identifies microbes and triggers immune response ?
For most organisms , what is the dominant system of defense ?
Pattern recognition receptors recognize components present in broad groups of what ?
The innate immune system responds in a generic way , meaning it is what ?
What is a mechanical barrier in insects that protects the insect ?
What is an example of a mechanical barrier on leaves ?
What responses protect the lungs by mechanically ejecting pathogens from the respiratory system ?
What is secreted by the respiratory tract to trap microorganisms ?
The flushing action of what expels pathogens from the eyes ?
What are the anitmicrobial peptides secreted by the skin called ?
What enzymes in saliva are antibacterial in nature ?
Semen contains what in order to kill pathogens ?
What compounds in the stomach protect against ingested pathogens ?
Vaginal secretions serve as a chemical protective barrier following what ?
What serves as a biological barrier by competing for space and food in the GI tract ?
Most antibiotics target bacteria and do n't affect what class of organisms ?
What probiotic flora is found in unpasteurized yogurt ?
Commensal flora can change what specific conditions of their environment in the gastrointestinal tract ?
What is one of the first responses the immune system has to infection ?
What causes the symptoms of inflammation ?
What compounds are released by injured or infected cells , triggering inflammation ?
Eicosanoids include what compounds that result in fever and blood vessel dilation ?
What cytokines are responsible for communication between white blood cells ?
What type of cells engulf or eat pathogens and foreign particles ?
Phagocytes can be called to a specific location by what ?
When a pathogen has been eaten by a phagocyte it becomes trapped in what vesicle ?
What is formed when a phagosome fuses with a lysosome ?
Phagocytosis first evolved as means of doing what ?
What are two types of phagocytes that travel through the body to find invading pathogens ?
What are the most abundant kind of phagocyte ?
What percentage of leukocytes do neutrophils represent ?
What is the process in which neutrophils move towards the site of inflammation called ?
What is a regulatory factor produced by macrophages ?
What are white blood cells known as ?
What cells are the second arm of the innate immune system ?
Innate cells can act as mediators in the activation of what branch of the immune system ?
What are three kinds of phagocytes ?
What are the phagocytes that are located in tissues in contact with the external environment called ?
Dendritic cells are named that because they resemble what ?
What are one of the key cell types of the adaptive immune system ?
Dendritic cells present antigens to what cells of the adaptive nervous system ?
Natural killer cells recognize cells that should be targeted by a condition known as what ?
What is one part of the innate immune system that does n't attack microbes directly ?
Missing self desribes cells that only have small amounts of what cell-surface marker ?
MHC antigens on normal body cells are recognized by what receptor on NK cells ?
In what types of organisms did the adaptive immune system first evolve ?
The adaptive immune system recognizes non-self antigens during a process called what ?
Antigen specificity allows responses that are specific to certain types of what ?
What are the two major subtypes of T cells ?
What kind of T cells have the purpose of modulating the immune response ?
Killer T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules ?
Helper and regulatory T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules ?
What class of T cells recognizes intact antigens that are not associated with MHC receptors ?
What kind of T cells kill cells that are infected with pathogens ?
What co-receptor on the T cell helps in recognizing the MHC-antigen complex ?
What is the receptor that killer T cells use to bind to specific antigens that are complexed with the MHC Class 1 receptor of another cell ?
What toxin induces apoptosis in the target cell ?
When an activated killer T cell finds cells where the MHC 1 receptor has specific antigens , it releases cytotoxins such as what ?
What co-receptor recruits molecules inside the T cell that are responsible for cell activation ?
How many receptors on a helper T cell must be bound to a MHC : antigen complex in order for the cell to be activated ?
The receptors on a killer T cell must bind to how many MHC : antigen complexes in order to activate the cell ?
Activation of a helper T cell causes it to release what chemicals that influence cell activity ?
What is a ligand on the cell surface that is upregulated after helper T cell activation ?
Gamma delta T cells share the characteristics of what other types of T cells ?
Gamma delta T cells have a different version of what receptor ?
What type of T cells help with both innnate and adaptive immunity ?
Gamma delta T cells rearrange TCR genes to produce what ?
What kind of human T cells respond to common molecules produced by microbes ?
What kind of cell identifies pathogens when the antibodies on its surface complex with a specific foreign antigen ?
What is the process by which the antigen/antibody complex is processed in to peptides ?
What does the matching helper T cell release when it binds with the MHC : antigen complex of the B cell ?
When B cells and T cells begin to replicate , what do some of their offspring cells become ?
The function of long-lived memory cells is an example of what kind of immune response ?
Immunological memory can take what two forms ?
Long-lived memory cells can remember previous encounters with what ?
Newborns are vulnerable to infection because they have no previous exposure to what ?
What antibody is transported from the mother to baby across the placenta ?
Antibodies are transferred to the gut of the infant through what means ?
Antibodies transported from the mother to an infant via the placenta is an example of what type of short-lived immunity ?
Hormones can alter the sensitivity of the immune system , so they can be referred to as what ?
Female sex hormones are immunostimulators of which immune responses ?
What is an autoimmune disease that affects women preferentially ?
What is the effect of testosterone on the male immune system ?
What is a protein that is closely intertwined with circadian rhythms ?
Disruptions in sleep can lead to increase in what chronic conditions ?
What kind of deprivation results in diminished immune response and lower antibody production ?
What is partially responsible for weakened immune response in older individuals ?
As a person gets older , what does the skin produce less of ?
The production of what signalling molecules is regulated by the immune system ?
Older people get less sun and produce less of what chemical via UVB radiation ?
What type of immune cells help to destroy abnormal cells in tumors ?
Lots of tumor cells have fewer of what type of molecule on their surface ?
Tumor antigens are complexed with MHC class I molecules in the same way as what antigens ?
The immune system also produces what molecules in order to allow for tumor destruction by the complement system ?
Plants lack what kind of immune cells ?
Plant cells respond to the molecules associated with pathogens known as what ?
Cells of the site of an infection in a plant undergo what process to prevent spread of the disease ?
What is a kind of defense response that makes the entire plant resistant to a particular agent ?
What is a mechanism that can help plants block virus replication ?
What kind of disorders are the result of an overactive immune response ?
In autoimmune disorders , the immune system does n't distinguish between what types of cells ?
Where are the specialized cells that eliminate cells that recognize self-antigens located ?
Under normal conditions , T cells and antibodies produce what kind of peptides ?
What kind of disorders occur when part of the immune system is n't active ?
In what two age groups is the strength of the immune system reduced ?
At what age do immune responses typically begin to decline ?
What are some causes of reduced immune function in developed countries ?
What is the most common cause of immunodeficiency in developing nations ?
By what process can active immunity be generated in an artificial manner ?
What is the process of vaccination also known as ?
In the process of vaccination , what is introduced in order to develop a specific immunity ?
Vaccination exploits what feature of the human immune system in order to be successful ?
Bacteria often secrete what kind of proteins to ingest a physical barrier ?
What kind of system of infection involves inserting a hollow tube into a host cell ?
In a type III secretion system , proteins are transported to the host cell in order to do what ?
The success of pathogens is predicated on their ability to do what ?
Who formulated the idea of clonal selection theory of immunity ?
What are two examples of nonself entities in accordance with Frank Burnet 's theory ?
What is the complex " two-signal " activation of T cells referred to ?
What other scientist influence Frank Burnet when he was formulating his theory of immunity ?
What are the most powerful class of anti-inflammatory drugs ?
Low doses of anti-inflammatories are sometimes used with what classes of drugs ?
What are two examples of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive drugs ?
What is an example of an immunosuppressive drug that prevents T cell activity by altering signal transduction pathways ?
What are examples of differentiated effector cells that peak during wake periods ?
What are two anti-inflammatory molecules that peak during awake hours ?
Inflammation occurs during sleep times because of the presence of what molecule ?
Melatonin during sleep can actively counteract the production of what ?
What does a T cell extend when it encounters a foreign pathogen ?
What is the active form of vitamin D known as ?
What is the nature of the relationship between T-cells and vitamin D ?
What gene is responsible for converting calcidiol into calcitriol ?
Other than T cells , what other immune cells express CYP27B1 ?
What are the proteins that organisms use to identify molecules associated with pathogens ?
What are the antimicrobial peptides that are the main form of invertebrate systemic immunity called ?
What cell type is also used for immune response in most types of invertebrate life ?
What pathway that plays a role in immune response to viruses is present in all eukaryotes ?
What molecules of the adaptive immune system only exist in jawed vertebrates ?
What are two examples of primitive jawless vertebrates ?
Primitive jawless vertebrates possess an array of receptors referred to as what ?
Evolution of what part of the immune system occurred in the evolutionary ancestor of jawed vertebrates ?
Invertebrates do not generate what type of cells that are a part of the vertebrate adaptive immune system ?
What is the main defense mechanism of bacteria known as ?
The restriction modification system is used by bacteria for protection from what pathogens ?
What is the system by which prokaryotes retain phage gene fragments that they have previously come in contact with ?
What were the two main theories of immunity at the end of the 19th century ?
Who was the main proponent of the cellular theory of immunity ?
Under Elie Metchnikoff 's cellular theory , what cells were responsible for immune response ?
What two scientists were proponents of the humoral theory of immunity ?
According to the humoral theory of immunity , what were the bodies immune agents ?
Tumors that are able to evade the body 's immune response can become what ?
What receptors do tumor cells often have reduced concentrations of ?
What is a chemical secreted by tumors that suppresses the immune response ?
Cytokine TBF-B suppresses the activity of what cell types ?
What is the name for a response of the immune system that damages the body 's native tissues ?
How many classes of immune hypersensitivity are there ?
What type of hypersensitivity is associated with allergies ?
What is the chemical that mediates Type 1 hypersensitivity ?
Antibody-dependent hypersensitivity belongs to what class of hypersensitivity ?
What is the process by which pathogens evade the immune system by hiding inside the host cells called ?
What food bacteria is an example of intracellular pathogenesis ?
What is the eukaryotic parasite responsible for malaria known as ?
What bacteria lives inside a protective capsule that serves to prevent cell lysis ?
What protein does Staphylococcus aureus produce to make antibodies ineffective ?
What is the process by which the adaptive immune system is evaded by the chainging of non-essential epitopes called ?
What is an example of a virus that uses antigenic variation ?
What is an example of a parasite that used the antigenic variation strategy to evade destruction ?
What compounds can be masked with the molecules of the host cell in order for a virus to evade detection ?
What is the process by which the immune system identifies tumors called ?
What is the virus in humans that causes cervical cancer ?
What is an example of an enzyme that can transform skin cells into tumors when expressed at high levels ?
What are cancerous tumors of the skin known as ?
What are the skin cells that can be transformed into tumors known as ?
At what size and larger can drugs elicit a neutralizing immune response ?
What kind of amino acids are overrepresented in epitope regions ?
What is the study of proteins involved in immune response known as ?
There is a public database of epitopes for pathogens known to be recognizable by what cells ?
What is the field of studying immunogenicity through bioinformatics known as ?
Drop in the blood levels of cortisol and epinephrine results in increase levels of what hormones ?
Hormones released during sleep support the interaction of T-cells and what species ?
Sleep hormones shift the cytokine balance to which cytokine ?
Sleep hormone release supports formation of immune memory by initiating what immune response ?
Complement proteins bind to what kind of molecules on the surface of microbes in order to elicit an immune response ?
How can the deposition of compliment kill invader cells directly ?
The speed of the killing response of the human immune system is a product of what process ?
What type of cascade results when complement proteins bind to microbes and activate their protease activity ?
What is it called when people in society rebel against laws they think are unfair ?
What is an example of major civil disobedience in South Africa ?
What was the the movement called that brought Baltic countries independence from the Soviet Union ?
In 2004 the Orange revolution occurred in what country ?
Where was the location of the 2003 Rose revolution ?
Which people brought forward one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience ?
Who was one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience against ?
Why do people chose civil disobedience to protest ?
What does civil disobedience protest against ?
What civil rights movement in the US was known for it 's disobedience ?
Sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience in a play that was called ?
Who is Antigone 's father in the play ?
What is the name of the current King of Thebes in the play ?
What character in the play portrays civil disobedience ?
What is Creon trying to stop Antigone from doing in the play ?
What play showed an early depiction of civil disobedience ?
Antigone was a play made by whom ?
In Antigone , who was the target of civil disobedience ?
What was the protest in Antigone about ?
How was the civil disobedience shown in Antigone ?
After the Peterloo massacre what poet wrote The Massacre of Anarchy ?
His poem is considered the first kind of what type of protest ?
Inspired by Shelley what was the name of Gandhi 's doctrine ?
Gandhi often referenced Shelley 's poem in his efforts to do what ?
What famous author used similarity and likeness of Percy Shelly in his writing ?
Who wrote the poem The Mark of Anarchy ?
The Mark of Anarchy was written to protest against what ?
What was the principle shown in The Mark of Anarchy ?
What was Ghandi 's work called ?
Which famous Indian practiced civil disobedience ?
Vice President Agnew describes Civil disobedience in what activities ?
What person argues that civil disobedience is used to describe everything ?
Civil disobedience has been argued in more recent times to have suffered from what ?
More in the present prevalence of civil disobedience has turned and said to be ?
In modern times , what is said about civil disobedience ?
Who noted the different current uses of civil disobedience ?
How has civil disobedience evolved in current times ?
Who gave a negative connotation to civil disobedience in recent history ?
What issue has been plaguing the civil disobedience movement .
Who wrote that it is difficult to produce an all inclusive definition of civil disobedience ?
Le Grande also wrote that defining the term civil disobedience so difficult it could be described as ?
Le grand asks for a variance of what three terms ?
Le grand states that students studying civil disobedience will often run into grammatical niceties and what other problem ?
Le grand concludes that an author 's words offer only what they intended for them to imply regarding this type of terminology ?
Who said that writing a good description of civil disobedience is hard ?
How much literature has been written regarding civil disobedience ?
What issue plagues the literature about civil disobedience ?
What type of protest falls under civil disobedience without aggression ?
What type of civil disobedience is accompanied by aggression ?
If the head of government refuses to enforce a decision of the highest court what terminology could be used ?
Constitutional impasse is different from civil disobedience because does not include what type of person ?
How is civil disobedience typically defined in connection of the citizen 's ?
When would a person be considered to be excising a constitutional impasse ?
Constitutional impasse is distinct from what key term ?
What does civil disobedience relate to ?
What does not constitute as civil disobedience ?
What type of person can not be attributed civil disobedience ?
Civil Disobedience is mainly performed by what population group ?
What group of people can not be part of civil disobedience ?
What author argues pitching the conscience versus the collective ?
What was Thoreau 's punishment for not paying his taxes ?
Thoreau argues that usually majority rules but their views collectively are sometimes ?
What did Thoreau ask a public figure the taxman to do ?
Thoreau mentions what type of person could corrupt a government system ?
Who is the final judge of right and wrong ?
Who is to blame for acting unjustly ?
Who was famous for disobedience against a tax collector ?
What advise did Thoreau give the tax collector when unable to perform his duty ?
What did Thoreau claim about the majority ?
Some theories argue that civil disobedience is justified in regard to ?
Brownlee argues disobedience can be justified toward what institutions ?
Brownlee justifies civil disobedience toward what branch of the government ?
Browlee also applies that civil disobedience is okay regarding ?
Who claims that public companies can also be part of civil disobedience ?
What reason is given that you should also protest public companies ?
What do some theories claim about civil disobedience ?
What public entity of learning is often target of civil disobedience ?
If law breaking is not done in a public manor it is not considered what term ?
Stephen Eilmann asks why show public civil disobedience instead what is a better idea ?
Stephen Eilmann demonstrates covert law breaking in Nazi Germany . Citizen 's illegally had been doing what ?
Stephen Eildmann cites the oldest known example of civil disobedience in what part of the bible ?
What two women were defying the pharaoh in the story from the book of Exodus ?
What must be done to make non public lawbreaking acknowledged as civil disobedience ?
What is necessary to disobey ?
What is sometimes more effective than civil disobedience at times ?
What dilemma is a good example of moral civil disobedience ?
What book of the Bible discusses civil disobedience ?
Cristian Bay 's encyclopedia concludes that civil disobedience does not only include what behavior ?
What dictionary contains a non- violent definition ?
What other terminology is considered much more destructive ?
People behaving with civil disobedience that is not-violent is said to make society have more of what ?
Debates about civil disobedience include or exclude what major practice ?
What type of civil disobedience is commonly accepted ?
When violence is used , what is civil disobedience sometimes called ?
What is one result of civil rebellion ?
Why is it preferred that civil disobedience is non violent ?
What is it called when there is an active attempt to overthrow a government or belief system ?
What group of people performed revolutionary civil disobedience toward the Austrian government ?
The Hungarians performed this civil disobedience under the direction of what person ?
Revolutionary civil disobedience towards culture is highlighted by example of who ?
What other topics can Civil disobedience pertain to ?
What is a simple form of civil disobedience ?
Why would a person chose civil disobedience against specific laws ?
What is the goal of individual civil disobedience ?
What type of civil disobedience is larger scale ?
What famous Indian 's actions were considered civil disobedience ?
When did the earliest examples of civil disobedience as a whole occur ?
What did the Jewish people do so pagan items would n't be in the temple of Jerusalem ?
Since Thoreau was not a well known writer what happened when he was arrested ?
What position did the tax collector that arrested Thoreau get ?
When was Thoreau 's essay published ?
When is the oldest recorded incident of civil disobedience ?
What was the goal of this Roman disobedience ?
What is a recent civil disobedience done in a group form ?
What is the civil disobedience called where people refuse to be released ?
How long did it take for Thoreau 's disobedience to be known ?
Civil disobedients have chosen many different kinds of what type of behaviors ?
Bedau notes that illegal protests towards public policy may serve as what purpose ?
What group of civil disobedients brought medicine to Iraq without the permission of the government ?
How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live in a tree ?
What was the outcome of living in the California Redwood tree ?
What type of actions are taken sometimes in civil disobedience ?
What is an example of illegal disobedience ?
Such protests are usually considered to be what type ?
What type of goals are usually done skirting the law ?
Who lived in a tree to prevent it from being cut down as a form of civil disobedience ?
What was Joseph Haas arrested for ?
What did Joseph Haas say in his email ?
Civil disobedience can occur when people speak about a certain topic that is deemed as ?
WBAI 's broadcasting Some of George Carlin 's comedy eventually led to what ?
What year did the the case go before the supreme court ?
What is one criminal behavior that is hard to stop by authorities ?
What is one way to use pure speech to reach as much people as possible to protest ?
How can you protest against the government in an individual way ?
What is one way of digital civil disobedience that can have far reaching consequences ?
Boycotting , refusing to pay taxes , sit ins , and draft dodging all make what harder ?
Name one way the Plowshares organization temporarily close GCSB Waihopai ?
Name the other way that the Plowshares organization temporarily closed ?
Brownlee argues that sometimes people behave in what way to have their issue heard ?
When large groups of people all boycott a system or do n't pay taxes it can be considered ?
What is a type of disobedience against the federal government ?
What side effect of these type of protests is unfortunate ?
What goal do many of these protests have ?
How can you protest against big companies in a non violent way ?
What type of government investigations apply to civil disobedience ?
What is a way you can show police officers civil disobedience ?
What should be avoided when talking to authorities ?
What reasons cause failure of the disobedience with authorities ?
Why do some people purposely resist officers of the law ?
What do some civil disobedient people feel the need to acknowledge .
Why is the need for acceptance of punishment needed ?
What do some people protest against ?
What is the group called that does not agree with government at all ?
Anarchists do not want to accept punishment for what reason ?
What is an important personal decision for civil disobedients ?
Which duty do some people believe civil disobedients have ?
Why would one plead guilty to a crime involving civil disobedience ?
Which reason is given sometimes to plead not guilty involving these matters ?
What third type of plea uses creative words ?
Where in Las Vegas did a famous protest take place ?
What was the civil disobedience performed at the test site ?
What was the result of the disobedience protesting the nuclear site ?
How did their lawyer suggest they would plea ?
What type of sentences were the protesters given ?
Why do some people chose to go to jail for their disobedience ?
Going to jail accomplished what goal of civil disobedience ?
What is the most important item for civil disobedience to follow through ?
Why should one not go to jail ?
What type of punishment is sometimes offered to civil disobedients ?
What is usually the goal of taking a plea bargain ?
When many people are arrested , what is a common tactic negotiating ?
What type of plea is sometimes taken as an act of disobedience ?
Which famous Indian took a plea and put himself at the mercy of the courts ?
What way do some people perform civil disobedience in a constructive way ?
Why would one want to give a speech ?
Why is giving a defiant speech sometimes more harmful for the individual ?
Why would one want to give more punishment ?
What type of treatment do civil disobedients usually receive ?
What is the primary goal of pleading not guilty when arrested for Civil Disobedience ?
What is a secondary goal of pleading not guilty ?
What would someone who is civilly disobedient do in court ?
What US war has a large amount of Civil Disobedients ?
What can sympathetic Jurors in cases with civil disobedients ?
What needs to be avoided with civil disobedience ?
Why should disobedience by the general public be avoided ?
What is one main reason that civil disobedience is not recognized ?
Why should someone not commit a crime when they are protesting ?
For what reason would someone avoid crimes while protesting ?
What is violating a law which is not the goal of the protest called ?
When the law is a direct target of the protest , what is this called ?
What US war caused a high amount of civil disobedience ?
What type of defense is sometimes used in court by protestors ?
Why are people who distribute leaflets inside courthouses not been arrested ?
What is the main goal of criminal punishment of civil disobedients ?
What should be the main goal of not using punishment in a just system ?
Who decides the fate of protesters most of the time ?
What should the punishment rely on instead in a just society ?
What is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure ?
What typically involves mass production of similar items without a designated purchaser ?
What percentile of gross domestic product is construction comprised of ?
What three things are needed for construction to take place ?
Construction takes place on location for who ?
Who normally manages a construction job ?
Who normally supervises a construction job ?
What is essential for the successful execution of a project ?
The largest construction projects are known as what ?
Zoning requirements , environmental impact , budgeting , and logistics are things who should consider ?
What are the three sectors of construction ?
Building construction is usually further divided into what categories ?
Infrastructure is often called what ?
Large public works , dams , bridges , highways , water/wastewater and utility distribution are under what construction sector ?
Refineries , process chemical , power generation , mills and manufacturing plants are under what sector of construction ?
What is Engineering News-Record ?
What compiles and reports on data about the size of design and construction companies ?
In what year did ENR compile data in nine market segments ?
ENR used data on what to rank Top 400 firms as heavy contractors ?
What are the three construction subsectors ?
There are other categories for what ?
What has a classification system for construction companies ?
What are construction managers ?
What is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings ?
The majority of building construction jobs are what ?
Who acts as laborer , paymaster , and design team for a renovation project ?
What are some examples of undesirable end results of a project ?
What do those in the field do to ensure a positive outcome ?
Residential construction practices , technologies , and resources must conform to what ?
What generally dictates the construction materials used ?
Residential construction can generate what is not carefully planned ?
Site conditions , local regulations , economies of scale and the availability of skilled tradespeople all affect what ?
New techniques of building construction are being researched , made possible by advances in what ?
Building printing is making it possible to flexibly construct small commercial buildings and private habitations in what amount of time ?
Dutch architect Janjaap Ruijssenaars 's performative architecture 3D-printed building is scheduled to be built when ?
Working versions of 3D-printing building technology are already printing how much building material per hour ?
A formal design team may be assembled to do what ?
Construction involves the translation of what ?
The design team is most commonly employed by who ?
Who provides the bill of quantities ?
The owner typically awards a contract to who ?
The modern trend in design is toward integration of what ?
Even in large firms , architects , interior designers , engineers , developers , construction managers , and general contractors were more likely to be what ?
In modern times , firms may offer themselves as what for a construction project ?
What kind of contract is given when the contractor is given a performance specification and must undertake the project from design to construction , while adhering to the performance specifications ?
What project structures assist the owner in integration ?
These project structures allow the owner to integrate the services of who throughout the design and construction ?
Many construction companies are now placing more emphasis on what ?
What can construction projects suffer from ?
What is an underbid ?
When do cash flow problems exist ?
What financial issue is notoriously prevalent in the construction field ?
Who are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project ?
The presence of who is highly likely even in small projects ?
Who studies the expected monetary flow over the life of the project and to monitor the payouts throughout the process ?
Cost overruns with government projects have occurred when the contractor did what ?
Who applies expertise to relate the work and materials involved to a proper valuation ?
What must a project adhere to ?
Constructing a project that fails to adhere to codes does not benefit whom ?
What is malum in se considerations ?
What are malum prohibitum considerations ?
Who may seek changes or exemptions in the law that governs the land where the building will be built ?
What is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations ?
What is the exchange of a set of obligations between two or more parties ?
What does the time element in construction mean ?
Contracts must be designed to ensure what ?
What leads to confusion and collapse ?
A growing number of new forms of procurement involves what ?
What is PPP ?
What is a PPP also known as ?
Focus on what is to ameliorate the many problems that arise from the often highly competitive and adversarial practices within the construction industry .
In the most common construction procurement , who acts as the project coordinator ?
Whose role is to design the works , prepare the specifications and produce construction drawings , administer the contract , tender the works , and manage the works from inception to completion
There are direct contractual links between who ?
Any subcontractor has a direct contractual relationship with who ?
The procedure continues until what ?
Who produces a list of requirements for a project , giving an overall view of the project 's goals ?
Who presents different ideas about how to accomplish goals ?
Who selects and hires the best ideas and appropriate contractors ?
Who is usually working together ?
What happens as they build phase 1 ?
Who is required to verify and have existing utility lines marked ?
Having existing utility lines marked lessens the likelihood of what ?
What are some existing facilities ?
Who inspects the building periodically to ensure that the construction adheres to the approved plans and the local building code ?
What is issued once construction is complete and a final inspection has been passed ?
What is the annual construction industry revenue in 2014 ?
How much revenue is private ?
How many firms were existing in 2005 ?
The average contractor hired how many employees ?
How many women were employed in construction in 2011 ?
What is the average construction salary in the Middle East ?
What is the average construction salary in the UK ?
Where have some workers made more than $ 100,000 ?
What is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world ?
What is the most common cause of injury on site ?
What are other major fatality causes ?
What can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry ?
Along with non-governmental and nonstate schools , what is another name for private schools ?
Along with sport and art , what is a type of talent scholarship ?
Rather than taxation , what are private schools largely funded by ?
What right do private schools have that public schools do n't ?
What is the yearly cost of some notable prep schools in New England ?
What are private schools that charge no tuition called ?
Along with Canada and the United Kingdom , what country generally does n't refer to universities as private schools ?
What region does use the term 'private schools ' to refer to universities ?
What is another term for year 12 of education ?
What is another term used for year 13 ?
What is another term for university-preparatory schools ?
Along with location , endowment and the willingness of parents to pay , what factor influences private school tuition ?
Who receives higher salaries at private schools that charge higher tuition ?
What religion 's schools does the term 'parochial schools ' generally refer to ?
Along with Muslims , Jews and Protestant Christians , what religious group notably operates private schools ?
What type of education is sometimes present at religious schools in addition to the secular curriculum ?
What power is available to Australian private schools but generally not present in public schools ?
What is an example of an article of uniform clothing typically present in Australian private schools ?
What is the comparison in price between Australian private schools versus public ?
Along with the Anglican Church and Uniting Church , what religious denomination operates private schools in Australia ?
What denomination operates St Joseph 's College ?
Where is St Aloysius ' College located ?
Who attends Loreto Normanhurst ?
What article of the Grundgesetz grants the right to make private schools ?
The prospect of what event compelled the protection of German private schools ?
What percentage of German students attended private schools in 2008 ?
What was the percentage of Germans attending private high schools in 2008 ?
In 1992 , what percentage of East German students attended private schools ?
What is the German term for segregating students based on their parents ' wealth ?
What do Germans call private schools ?
How does the level of tuition in German private schools compare to private schools in other Western European countries ?
What are private secondary schools in Germany called ?
What types of schools are most ergänzungsschulen ?
How are ergänzungsschulen funded ?
Along with private individuals and organizations , what groups sometimes runs ergänzungsschulen ?
What is the term for an Indian private school ?
Along with the CISCE and NENBSE , what is a notable Examination Board in multiple Indian states ?
How many Examination Boards exist in India ?
What body in India provides policy directions to schools ?
Along with trusts , what other non-profits are allowed to run schools in India ?
What country has the most illiterate adults in the world ?
What is the full name of the ASER ?
What is the purpose of the ASER ?
In private schools , what language are classes taught in ?
What is the Irish term for private schools ?
How do private schools in Ireland differ from most ?
What is the typical annual cost for an Irish private school ?
Along with the Congregation of Christian Brothers , what is a notable religious group that runs fee-paying schools in Ireland ?
What might the fees to attend an Irish boarding school rise to ?
In what year did Malaysia receive its independence ?
What language is used in Chinese primary schools in Malaysia ?
What language is used in Chinese secondary schools in Malaysia ?
What is the name of the post-independence government school system in Malaysia ?
As a result of a compromise , about how many Chinese schools became National Type schools ?
What is a term for schools that receive government assistance ?
How are 'un-aided ' schools different from 'aided ' schools ?
Where is Galaxy Public School located ?
In Nepalese private schools , what is the primary language of instruction ?
In addition to English , what language is also often taught in Nepalese private schools ?
How many private schools existed in New Zealand in April 2014 ?
In April 2014 , how many New Zealand students attended private schools ?
What percentage of New Zealand students attended private schools in April 2014 ?
What religion 's schools were integrated into New Zealand public schools between 1979 and 1984 ?
What city , along with Hamilton , Wellington and Christchurch , is one of the largest in New Zealand ?
What denomination is the Diocesan School for Girls in Auckland affiliated with ?
Where is Samuel Marsden Collegiate School located ?
What denomination is associated with Saint Kentigern College ?
In what city is Rangi Ruru Girls ' School ?
What group operates St Dominic 's College in Wanganui ?
What percentage of Filipino primary school students are in private schools ?
In the Philippines , what percentage of secondary school students attend private schools ?
What percentage of Filipino tertiary education takes place in private schools ?
In what month and year was the revised Manual of Regulations for Private Schools released ?
Along with English and mathematics , what subject replaced values education for fourth year students ?
What is the name of the scheme that provides tuition and fee assistance to students due to excess enrollment ?
What stipend do students enrolled in priority courses receive ?
What aid is available to underprivileged students seeking to attend a private university ?
What South African law recognized two types of schools ?
In what year was the South African Schools Act passed ?
Along with public schools , what type of school was recognized under the South African Schools Act ?
In South Africa , along with privately governed schools , what schools are classified as independent ?
In what century did missionaries notably establish church schools in South Africa ?
After apartheid , what types of schools are referred to as " Model C " schools ?
How do academic results in former Model C schools compare to other schools ?
How do the fees at former Model C schools compare to those at other schools ?
As of 2008 , about what percentage of Swedish students attended private schools ?
About many students attend Kunskapsskolan schools ?
How many people work for Kunskapsskolan schools ?
What is the English translation of Kunskapsskolan ?
What school model is Sweden notable for ?
Up to what age do students in the United Kingdom attend preparatory schools ?
What schools do preparatory schools prepare British children to attend ?
What percentage of British children are educated at GSCE level in fee-paying schools ?
At A-level , what percentage of British students attend fee-paying schools ?
What is the upper range of annual fees for non-boarding students in British public schools ?
What court case desegregated schools in the United States ?
What is a derogatory term for the Christian academies that arose in the wake of school desegregation ?
In what part of the United States did many students migrate to Christian academies during the desegregation period ?
What was the primary race of students attending Christian academies after the Brown decision ?
School desegregation in the United States led to an increased number of students of what ethnicity in public schools ?
Along with tuition , scholarships , vouchers , donations and grants , where does funding for private schools come from ?
What amendment to the United States Constitution governs government funding of religious schools ?
What state constitutional amendments make reference to the government funding religious schools ?
Granting what status would allow private non-religious schools in the US to receive public funds ?
What was the first US state to have compulsory education ?
In what year did Massachusetts first require children to be educated in schools ?
In what year was Wisconsin v. Yoder decided at the Supreme Court ?
What is the citation for the Pierce v. Society of Sisters case ?
Who was the opposing party in the Runyon case ?
About how much did a New York City day school cost annually in 2012 ?
What would a parent have to pay to send their child to a boarding school in 2012 ?
What notable private school has an endowment of several hundred million dollars ?
In addition to endowments and tuition , how do boarding schools cover their operating costs ?
What individual is the school named after ?
When did the undergraduate program become coeducational ?
What was the name of the leader through the Great Depression and World War II ?
What organization did Harvard found in 1900 ?
What president of the university transformed it into a modern research university ?
What is the worlds largest academic and private library system ?
How many individual libraries make up the main school library ?
How many volumes are contained in the library ?
How many US presidents are alumni of the school ?
How many Nobel Laureates are among the school alumni ?
What is the major US city that the is the university located ?
What is the size of the school 's endowment ?
What river is located in the vicinity of the school ?
How many academic units make up the school ?
What is the name of the area that the main campus is centered in Cambridge ?
In what year was the school formed ?
What organization arranged to founding of school ?
What year was North America 's first printing press started ?
In what year was the school renamed as Harvard College ?
In what year was the charter granted for Harvard Corporation ?
Ministers of what faith were trained by the university in early years ?
After what higher learning model was the school designed ?
Was the school officially associated with any denomination ?
In what year did Harvard President Joseph Willard die ?
What liberal succeeded Joseph Willard as president ?
In what year was Henry Ware elected to chair ?
in 1846 who 's natural history lectures were acclaimed in New York and Harvard ?
Agassiz 's approach to science combined observation and what ?
Common Sense Realism of what Scottish philosophers did Agassiz incorporate in his dual view of knowedge ?
What president eliminated the Christian position in the curriculum ?
What conviction motivated Eliot to move towards secularization ?
From whom were the movement that Eliot followed derived ?
Who lead the school back to leading research institution in 2oth century ?
How was the school able to bring aboard the best talented students ?
In what year of 20th century , did Harvard release an important document about education in America ?
What was the ratio of men to women at Harvard/Radcliffe ?
In what year did Harvard and Radcliffe admissions merge ?
What was the trend of female student population from 1970s and deyond ?
How far from state house in downtown Boston is Harvard Yard ?
How many residential dorms house upper class , sophomore , Jr , and Sr students ?
Along what geographic feature are nine residential houses located ?
How far from the Yard is the Quad located ?
Where is Harvard stadium located ?
What is the name of the bridge that joins parts of the campus of the Charles River ?
Where are the Harvard medical , Dental and school of Public Health located ?
How much more land does the school own in Allston than Cambridge ?
What are some proposals to connect campuses ?
What additional benefits are there to surrounding community of expansion ?
What is the total number of professors , instructors , and lecturers at Harvard ?
What is the enrollment of undergraduates at Harvard ?
How many graduate students does Harvard have ?
When was the color crimson adopted at Harvard as official color ?
What year is the earliest traces of the color Crimson at Harvard ?
What was the Harvard endowment total in 2011 ?
How great were the losses suffered in the the financial crisis of 2008-09 to Harvard endowment ?
What project did Harvard halt due to the financial crisis ?
What are Harvard 's Pell grant reserves ?
What is Harvard 's total financial aid reserves ?
When was the divestment from South Africa movement ?
What South African Vice Consul did Harvard students blockade the speech of ?
By how much did Harvard management reduce its South Africa holdings in response to pressure ?
What is the applicant admission rate for class of 2019 ?
In what year did Harvard end its early admission program ?
Why did Harvard end its early admission program ?
In what year was an early admission program reintroduced ?
Between 1978 an d2008 four year full time undergraduate students were required to complete how many classes outside of their concentration ?
Post 2008 undergraduate students are required to complete how many general education classes towards degree ?
What criticism in NY times article that impacts the quality of Education at Harvard ?
What is the duration of Harvard Academic year ?
How many courses must undergraduates maintain for full time status ?
What are the top 4-5 % graduating students honored with ?
From 2004 to 2005 Harvard reduced the number of students earning Latin honors from 90 % to what ?
What is tuition for 2012 - 13 year at Harvard ?
What is the total cost of attendance in 2012-13 ?
After 2007 how much do student from families earning less than $ 60,000 pay for school ?
In 2009 what was the total of Grants awarded from Harvard ?
What percentage of total financial aid for undergraduates from Harvard was in the form of grants ?
What is the center library in the Harvard library system ?
What are the 3 post popular libraries for undergraduates in the Harvard system ?
Where are America 's oldest collection of maps , gazettes , and atlases housed ?
How many total volumes are in the Harvard library system ?
How many museums comprise Harvard Art Museums ?
What does the Fogg Museum of Art cover ?
What museum specializes in cultural history and civilizations of the Western Hemisphere ?
Starting in what year has Harvard topped the Academic Rankings of World Universities ?
Beginning in what year was Harvard on top of the World Reputation Rankings ?
According to the Princeton Review where has Harvard ranked as a " Dream College " in 2013
How many intercollegiate sports does Harvard compete in NCAA division I
What is Harvard 's most intense rival ?
At what time is the Harvard-Yale rivalry set aside ?
What was the first year that Yale and Harvard played football ?
In what year did Harvard Stadium become the first ever concrete reinforced stadium in the country ?
In what year was a set of significant rule changes introduced including the forward pass ?
What school was Walter Camp a captain for the football team ?
What is the name of Harvard 's basketball facility ?
What is the name of Harvard 's primary recreational sports facility ?
How many weight rooms are in the Malkin Athletic Center
Harvard - Yale Regatta predates " The Game " by how many years ?
In what body of water is the Harvard - Yale Regatta held ?
Who is the primary rival of the Harvard Crimson hockey team ?
In what year did Harvard win an Intercolleiate Sailing Association National Championship ?
What UN secretary went to Harvard ?
What Columbia President went to Harvard ?
Who is the Costa Rican President that went to Harvard ?
What Harvard Alumni was the Palestine Prime Minister ?
What tv host and writer went to Harvard ?
What famous conductor went to Harvard ?
What is the name of world renowned cellist is a former Harvard student ?
What famous civil rights leader called Harvard home ?
What Fields Medal winning Mathematician is a faculty member at Harvard ?
What prestigious legal scholars are faculty members at Harvard ?
What Shakespeare Scholar is a faculty member at Harvard ?
Which Florida city has the biggest population ?
What was the population Jacksonville city as of 2010 ?
Based on population alone , what is Jacksonville 's ranking in the United States ?
In which county does Jacksonville reside ?
What year did consolidation cause Jacksonville to become part of Duval County ?
What river runs alongside Jacksonville ?
How far is Jacksonville from Miami ?
What is the name of the French colony established in 1564 ?
Prior to the arrival of the French , the area now known as Jacksonville was previously inhabited by what people ?
What historical figure was Jacksonville named after ?
What is the ranking of the military forces in Jacksonville ?
What sport attracts most tourists to Jacksonville ?
How many naval bases are located in Jacksonville ?
What are those from Jacksonville sometimes called ?
The area where Jacksonville currently sits has been inhabited for how many years ?
Who discovered pottery found on Black Hammock Island ?
What civilization did the pottery belong to ?
What is the 16th century known as the start of ?
What is the name of the village that once existed in what is now downtown Jacksonville ?
Who mapped the St. Johns River in 1562 ?
For what nation did Ribault initially claim what is now Jacksonville ?
Who led the attack of the French colony in 1565 ?
What was Fort Caroline renamed to after the Spanish attack ?
Which fort was rebuilt in 1964 ?
After what event did the Spanish concede Florida to Britain ?
Soon after gaining Florida , what did the English do ?
Why the narrow part of St. John 's River called Cowford ?
Who gained control of Florida after the conclusion of the Revolutionary War ?
When was the Jacksonville town charter approved ?
Supplies from Jacksonville were in support of which faction in the Civil War ?
What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate win in Florida ?
After what battle did Union forces return to and occupy Jacksonville for the rest of the war ?
What factors negatively impacted Jacksonville following the war ?
In what year was the battle that resulted from a Confederate cavalry unit attacking a Union expedition ?
During which period did Jacksonville become a popular destination for the rich ?
Which US President visited Jacksonville in 1888 ?
What caused Jacksonville 's tourism to become less desirable at the latter half of the 19th century ?
What drew would-be Jacksonville tourists to other Florida destinations ?
Other than the steamboat , what modern form of travel brought visitors to Florida ?
What caused the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901 ?
How many buildings were razed by the Jacksonville fire ?
In the wake of the Jacksonville fire , what did the Florida Governor do ?
What was the Jacksonville fire later known as ?
Who was drawn to Jacksonville in the 1910s ?
What type of movies were produced in Jacksonville 's 30 studios ?
Jacksonville 's popularity for films earned it what title ?
What brought the downfall of Jacksonville filmmaking ?
What drove residents to quieter suburban housing ?
What was the white population of Jacksonville as of 2010 ?
What term referred to middle class citizens leaving the suburbs ?
Who was responsible for the new building projects in Jacksonville ?
Jacksonville began to suffer and decline after what major world event ?
What was the cause for the issues with city funding ?
In what part of the city did residents suffer from a lack of city services ?
What was the proposed solution to Jacksonville 's tax issues ?
Who voted against Jacksonville 's annexation ?
How were most city officials elected in the 1960s ?
How many city officials were indicted due to corruption ?
What political group began to gain support following the corruption scandal ?
What spurred increased support for government reform ?
What was the result of the 1967 referendum ?
Who was Jacksonville 's mayor at the time of the consolidation ?
What was Jacksonville referred to as after the consolidation ?
What was the name of the approved measure that helped cover the cost of major city projects ?
How did the Better Jacksonville Plan generate money ?
What is the land area of Jacksonville ?
What river separates Jacksonville ?
What is the name of the river that is completely contained inside Jacksonville ?
How much of Jacksonville is made up of water ?
What town is surrounded by Jacksonville ?
What distinction does the Bank of America Tower hold ?
The Bank of America Tower was previously known as what ?
How tall is the Bank of America Tower ?
How many floors are there in the building that was completed in 1967 ?
What makes the Wells Fargo Center stand out ?
What type of climate does Jacksonville have ?
When does rain typically fall in Jacksonville ?
How is winter weather in Jacksonville described as ?
Aside from being located on the coast , what contributes to Jacksonville 's lack of cold weather ?
What is Jacksonville 's hottest recorded temperature ?
What is a common occurrence during summer days ?
What else contributes to Jacksonville 's summer storms other than land heating beside the water ?
What is Jacksonville 's hottest month on average ?
What storm had the most significant impact on Jacksonville ?
How fast were the winds around St. Augustine in the 1964 hurricane ?
What was the name of the storm that hit Jacksonville in May of 2012 ?
What is the scale used to measure the strength of hurricanes called ?
In what year did a tropical storm cause a four day loss of power to Jacksonville ?
What ethnic group located in Jacksonville is ranked tenth largest ?
How many residents were recorded in the 2010 census of Jacksonville ?
Compared to the rest of Florida , how does Jacksonville 's Filipino population rank ?
What Jacksonville community is known for having heavy ties to the Navy ?
What portion of households in Jacksonville have only one person ?
How many of Jacksonville 's city residents are younger than 18 ?
Which gender is more populous across all groups in Jacksonville ?
How many men older than 18 are there for every 100 women ?
What percentage of global assets does the richest 1 % of people have ?
According to Oxfam , the 85 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people ?
In order to be considered in the top percentile , a person would need to amass how much money each year ?
What has caused Oxfam 's findings to be questioned ?
Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being doubted ?
What percent of the global assets in 2000 were owned by just 1 % of adults ?
What do the three richest people in the world posses more of than the lowest 48 nations together ?
How much was the combined wealth of the " 10 Million dollar millionaires " in 2008 ?
How much of the global wealth will the wealthiest 1 percent own by 2016 ?
Why are there more poor people in the United States and Europe than China ?
How many Americans are richer than more than half of all citizens ?
What publication printed that the wealthiest 1 % have more money than those in the bottom 90 % ?
What is considered as a potential advantage for wealth for some Americans ?
What did the richest 400 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults ?
What do the top 400 richest Americans have more of than half of all Americans combined ?
Who owns more wealth than the bottom 90 percent of people in the U.S. ?
What may explain why some Americans who 've become rich may have had a head start ?
How many of the richest 400 Americans grew up in substantial privilege ?
What Institute published findings in September 2012 regarding the Forbes richest 400 Americans ?
What philosophy of thought addresses wealth inequality ?
What is income inequality attributed to ?
What impacts distribution of wealth when evaluating labor ?
What is the term that describes the difference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn ?
How is income determined in a market with variously skilled workers ?
What did Neoclassical economics view the inequality in the distribution of income as being from ?
What is distribution of income from labor due to the differences of ?
What does the marginal value added by an economic actor determine ?
What are examples of economic actors ?
In a market economy , what is inequality a reflection of ?
What pushes businesses to increase pressures on workers ?
What impact does workers working harder have on productivity of a business ?
When less workers are required , what happens to the job market ?
What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on higher earners ?
What do capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis ?
Why do firms substitute equipment for workers ?
What trend increases the organic composition of capital over the long term ?
What does the substitution of equipment for labor raise for workers ?
What type of wages does mechanization and automation lead to ?
What is controled by the market and economy ?
Under what law is value of a worker determined ?
What happens when business underpays their workers ?
How do competing businesses attract workers ?
How is income inequality generally viewed by workers ?
What controls wages in a purely capitalist mode of production ?
What do wages work in the same way as for any other good ?
What can be considered as a function of market price of skill ?
What can concentrate wealth , pass environmental costs on to society and abuse both workers and consumers ?
What type of outcomes can even stable markets lead to ?
What has the tendency to increase wages in a field or job position ?
When there are many workers competing for a few jobs its considered as what ?
What is the potential earnings for a job where there are few skilled workers but many available positions ?
What can lead to higher wages for members of labor organizations ?
Who works to get workers higher compensation ?
What does many workers willing to work for a lot of time competing for a job that only requires a few workers result in ?
What drives down wages in a job with many workers willing to work a lot ?
Why does competition among workers drive down wages ?
What type of wages result from jobs where there is low supply but high demand ?
While competition between workers drives down wages for jobs with a high supply of worker , whose competition drives wages up for the inverse ?
What increases with the increase of income inequality ?
Survivial is at the heart of what concept for workers ?
What type of motivators are food and shelter considered ?
What type of motivators are achievement and self determination considered ?
What type of entrepreneurship leads to advancements in technology ?
What increases entrepreneurship rates at the individual level ?
What is the increased rates of self-employment based on ?
Survival needs such as income for food and shelter motivates what type of entrepreneurship ?
What motivation is opportunity-based entrepreneurship driven by ?
What type of impact does opportunity-based entrepreneurship tend to have on economic growth ?
What is it called when the tax rate and base amount increase simultaneously ?
What tax rate has a direct relationship with income inequality ?
What can work to even the distribution of wealth ?
What system has an impact on income inequality ?
In a progressive tax , what increases as the taxable base amount increases ?
What will have a direct impact of inequality in a system that uses a progressive tax ?
What can result in more equal distribution of income ?
What index is an indicator of the effects of taxes applied to social spending ?
What is key to getting the skills needed for high demand jobs ?
What do people with lower income have less access to ?
What does less education lead to when working ?
Who has limited productive potential when faced with less access to education ?
What are those with lower incomes less likely to have in order to prepare for the future ?
What is an important factor contributing to inequality for individuals ?
What does education in an area where there is high demand for workers tend to create ?
What type of wages do people unable to afford an education receive ?
What does lack of education lead directly to ?
What helps to unleash the productivity ability of the poor ?
What did Standard & Poor recommend to speed economy recovery ?
How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through more schooling ?
What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2008 ?
Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was not getting better ?
When did economists reach a conclusion with the S & P 's rating agency ?
When the recovery between the widening gap between the richest citizens and rest of the nation slow ?
What did S & P recommend to somewhat remedy the wealth gap ?
If the average U.S. worker were to complete an additional year of school , what amount of growth would be generated over 5 years ?
What does wealth disparity make the economy more prone to ?
When did the high school education movement occur ?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of skilled workers ?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of skilled workers ?
What impacts gender inequality in wages ?
What contributed to the decreased inequality between trained and untrained workers ?
When was the mass high school education movement ?
What did the increase in skilled workers lead to ?
How did the education during the high school education movement differ from the subsequent high school education ?
What is very important for the growth of the economy ?
What can result in creating a poverty trap ?
What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic mobility ?
Which set of countries have higher economic mobility than the United States ?
How much support is there for the US approach to economic development ?
Under which policy are labor unions encouraged ?
What is economic liberalism one of the causes of ?
What does the U.S. economic and social model have substantial levels of ?
What organization is John Schmitt and Ben Zipperer members of ?
How much support does evidence provide for the view that labor-market flexibility improves labor-market outcomes ?
What level of economic mobility does the U.S. economy have compared to European countries ?
What country has low income inequality and high presence of unions ?
What do weak labor movement correlate with ?
What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the US ?
What has presented problems to the US economy more than other nations ?
What is the profession of Jake Rosenfield ?
What college is Jake Rosenfield associated with ?
What does Rosenfield feel plays the most significant role in expanding the income gap ?
What rate of unionization do Scandinavian nations have ?
What does high inequality go hand-in-hand with ?
What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in richer countries ?
What effect does trade with richer countries have on the workers in poorer countries ?
What has a bigger impact on the United States ' economy more than trade ?
What has replaced lower skilled workers in the United States ?
What scale does trade liberalization shift economic inequality from ?
When rich countries trade with poor countries , whose wages increase ?
What does Paul Krugmen think has had an observable effect on inequality in the U.S. ?
Compared to other causes , the effect of trade on inequality in America is what ?
What has technological innovation and automation replaced low-skilled jobs with ?
What is the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana ?
What is the gender income inequality in Bahrain ?
What is attributed to the income inequality in the United States ?
Who does the wage gap between genders provide an advantage ?
In many countries , what kind of pay gap is there ?
Who does a gender pay gap tend to favor ?
What gender is less willing to travel or relocate for work ?
Who is the author of the book , " Knowledge and Decisions " ?
What does a U.S. census report state that even after other factors there still exists this between earnings of men and women ?
What types of programs help to redistribute wealth ?
What is the level of inequality in underdeveloped countries ?
What introduces inequality to a country ?
What leads to lower income inequality ?
What profession does Simon Kuznets have ?
What did Kuznets argue resulted from stages of development ?
What does a country acquire as it develops ?
What do the owners of more capital end up having ?
What do redistribution mechanisms lead to ?
During what time period did income inequality decrease in the United States ?
When did income inequality begin to increase in the US ?
In what sector are jobs beginning to increase ?
In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease ?
Who plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality ?
What is a a developing economy 's level of inequality bulging out called ?
What has recent testing of Kuznets theory with superior data show it to be ?
What does Kuznets ' curve predict about income inequality given time ?
What may be possible for multiple Kuznets ' cycles to be in at any given time ?
What process attributes new wealth to those that already have it ?
According to the wealth concentration theory , what advantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth ?
What has the highest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality ?
What tends to lead to more money ?
Where does newly created wealth concentrate ?
Who is best able to leverage the accumulation of wealth ?
What can significantly contribute to the continuing inequality in a society over time ?
Who wrote the book " Capital in the Twenty-First Century " ?
What do larger fortunes generate ?
What forces should serve as a brake on wealth concentration ?
What career does Joseph Stiglitz have ?
What type of skills does the market bid up compensation for ?
What is used by certain wealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them ?
Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a larger share of it is know to economists by what term ?
Higher rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what ?
Why does a lower level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption ?
What is lower in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries ?
What is a lower rate of social goods an effect of ?
In U.S. states , what happens to the life expectancy in less economically equal ones ?
What year did Robert J. Shiller win an Economics Nobel prize ?
What is the most important problem in the United States and elsewhere ?
Persistent unemployment has what effect on long-term economic growth ?
What 's one factor in eroding self-esteem ?
Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment support what type of growth ?
What nationality are researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett ?
What rates of health and social problems are in countries with high inequality ?
How are the rates of social goods in countries with higher inequality ?
How many developed countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from ?
Health problems were lower in places with higher levels of what ?
What did higher material living standards lead to for most of human history ?
Where does the pattern of higher income-longer lives still hold true ?
What increases rapidly as per capita income increases ?
Who lives no longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders ?
How are incomes distributed in Sweden ?
What characteristic in recent years has been strongly tied with health in developed countries ?
Who created an index of health and social problems ?
How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett identify ?
Where are health and social problems most common ?
What does child well-being in rich countries correlate most to ?
What has crime rate been show to be correlated with in a society ?
What is almost identical across all nations and jurisdictions ?
Over how many studies have shown that violence is more common in societies with income differences ?
What is it estimated that about half of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by ?
How much of a difference in homicide rates are related to inequality ?
What does the utilitarian principle seek for the greatest number of people ?
An adobe that provides less utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what ?
A dollar spent by a poor person is likely to provide what for them ?
What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes richer ?
What will a society with more equality have ?
What do conservative researchers fell should be a measure of inequality ?
What political leaning does the Cato Institute have ?
When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1986 ?
Who wrote " The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor " ?
What is Thomas B. Edsall 's profession ?
What is Raghuram Rajan 's career ?
What does Rajan feel has created deep financial fault lines ?
What is the most recent example of financial fault lines ?
What does political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power ?
What has given the American economy a tendency to go " from bubble to bubble " ?
What is negatively correlated to the duration of economic growth ?
What do high levels of inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity ?
What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent increases , according to IMF staff economists ?
What does an increase in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in ?
Who matters the most for economic growth ?
What do David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living ?
What does increasing inequality harm ?
What was persistent unemployment have a negative effect on ?
Why does unemployment harm growth ?
Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they reduce what ?
What did Stiglitz present in 2009 regarding global inequality ?
How does inequality prevent growth ?
What are both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz ?
What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality harms growth ?
What has become the secret to economic growth ?
When did Galor and Zeria show new information about inequality ?
Inequality in the presence of credit market imperfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation ?
What did a 1996 study by Perotti examine ?
What is inequality associated with higher levels of ?
What do extremely unequal societies tend to be ?
What does high levels of inequality do to growth in poor countries ?
What does high levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries ?
Barro found there is little relation between income inequality and rates of what ?
What institution does Robert Barro hail from ?
When was a study conducted of Swedish counties ?
What have studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming ?
The Kuznets curve says with economic development , inequality will decrease after what ?
Who challenges the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis ?
What 's Thomas Piketty 's job ?
What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1914 to 1945 ?
When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some positive effect on economic development ?
According to a 1955 review , what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset ?
What does a 2013 report on Nigeria suggest it 's growth has done ?
How long does it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth ?
What are longer growth spells associated with ?
What needs to be made to ensure poorer members of society can participate in economic growth ?
What can the growth elasticity of poverty depend on ?
What does it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve ?
What was Ban Ki-Moon the Secretary General of ?
What is n't economic growth sufficient for progress on ?
What is held outside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries ?
How is unregistered property held in informal form ?
Excessive bureaucratic red tape is one of the reasons for what type of ownership ?
In some countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land ?
What can it sometimes take up to 14 years to get permission to build on ?
What do a number of researchers think a shortage of is caused in part by income inequality ?
What decreased in number between 1984 and 1991 ?
Why did the demand for rentals decrease ?
What drove increased rental prices in East New York ?
What combined with ricing prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace ?
How are the certain costs which are difficult to avoid shared ?
What are those with lower incomes often unable to manage ?
What is the term when middle income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves ?
What is one method of achieving aspirational consumption ?
When people take on debt , it leads potentially to what ?
When economic inequality is smaller , more waste and pollution is ?
What would be lower if there were fewer people ?
What does the current high level of population have a large impact on ?
How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an increase of environmental damage ?
What is the vast disparities in wealth attributed to by Socialists ?
What does private ownership create a situation of ?
What type of income is the vast majority of the population dependent on ?
How do socialists think the means of production should be owned ?
What would income differentials be if individual contributions were relevant to the social product ?
Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by force ?
What is the usual form of the government 's wealth redistribution ?
In an ideal moral society , what would all citizens be free from ?
How were some modern economic inequalities created ?
When are inequalities in wealth justified , according to John Rawls ?
What does the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of ?
In the capabilities approach , grow and income are considered a means to an end rather than what ?
What is the goal of the capabilities approach ?
How would the capabilities approach achieve it 's goal ?
What is the definition of agency as it relates to capabilities ?
What happens when a person 's capabilities aer lowered , as it relates to their income ?
What can and old , ill man not do ?
What issues may prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education ?
Why would rampant violence prevent people from going to work ?
What can people work towards if they are n't denied their functionings , capabilities and agency ?
Who is the producer of Doctor Who ?
What year did Doctor Who first show on TV ?
What is Doctor Who 's space ship called ?
What does the outside of the Tardis resemble ?
What type/genre of TV show is Doctor Who ?
In what years did Doctor Who originally show on TV ?
Who relaunched Doctor Who in 2005 ?
What Doctor Who spin-off only made it as far as a pilot episode ?
Who produced the Doctor Who revival series ?
Who played Doctor Who in the revival series ?
How many actors have played Doctor Who ?
Who followed Matt Smith in the role of Doctor Who ?
Which episode was Matt Smith 's final one as Doctor Who ?
When does Doctor Who transition to a new body ?
In addition to a new body , what else changes about the Doctor ?
What planet is Doctor Who from ?
What vehicle did Doctor Who use for his escape from Gallifrey ?
That does TARDIS stand for ?
What feature normally allows the TARDIS to disguise itself ?
Why does Doctor Who 's TARDIS always look the same ?
How often does Doctor Who travel by himself ?
What enemy of Doctor Who is also a Time Lord ?
What does Doctor Who do when his body is mortally damaged ?
What type of beings does Doctor Who usually take with him on his travels ?
What type of Lord is Doctor Who ?
What was the date of the very first episode of Doctor Who ?
What creatures were the most popular monsters in the series ?
Why was the Dalek script rejected at first ?
Who wrote The Mutants ?
How long was each episode of Doctor Who ?
How many seasons did the BBC produce Doctor Who ?
Who ended the series in 1989 ?
What documentary was shown about Doctor Who ?
After cancelling the show , what did the BBC tell the public ?
What TV station showed the broadcasts of the original Doctor Who series ?
What was the BBC hoping that an independent production firm would do for Doctor Who ?
Who approached the BBC in 1989 about relaunching the show ?
What network showed a Doctor Who film ?
How many UK viewers watched the Doctor Who film ?
In what country was the Doctor Who film not successful enough to spawn a series ?
What was the name of the first episode of the new Doctor Who series ?
What year did Doctor Who finally return to television ?
What was the only year that a full series was not filmed since 2005 ?
Who will be the new executive producer of Doctor Who in 2018 ?
What type of special Doctor Who shows have been shown each year since 2005 ?
What years did the original Doctor Who series run ?
What new series continues the plot of the original Doctor Who ?
What year was the only film version of Doctor Who shown ?
Name two series that have been reboots rather than plot continuations .
What other series mentioned returned with a plot continuation ?
When did the BBC rebroadcast the first episode of Doctor Who ?
How long was the broadcast delay the first time the series premiered ?
Who long was the broadcast delay claimed to be the first time the series premiered ?
What major event U.S. occurred that made the BBC delay the broadcast ?
What other event made the BBC concerned that viewers had not seen the premier of Doctor Who ?
What popular phrase is associated with the Doctor Who series ?
Who put on a Doctor Who exhibition in 1991 ?
What was the name of the 1991 Doctor Who exhibition ?
What did people vote the Doctor Who series as in a 2011 online vote ?
Who conducted the 2011 online vote ?
Which show was voted most violent of the BBC shows in a 1972 survey ?
How many of the survey respondents considered Doctor Who very unsuitable for family viewing ?
What journalist wrote an article defending Doctor Who ?
In his defense of Doctor Who , what did Philip Howard compare to the London property market ?
What publication did Philip Howard work for ?
What image has become linked to Doctor Who ?
What does the TARDIS look like ?
What is the function of the TARDIS ?
Who filed an objection to the BBC using the blue police box in Doctor Who merchandise ?
When did the BBC receive a favorable ruling on the trade mark claim ?
How many seasons did the original Doctor Who run ?
When was the last episode of the original series ?
How many episodes were in The Daleks ' Master Plan ?
What is the name of a Time Lord that Doctor Who has fought ?
What was the focus of Season 20 of Doctor Who ?
In what year did the serial format change for the Doctor Who series ?
How long was each Doctor Who episode in the 2005 revival series ( including ads ) ?
When was an extended episode of Doctor Who shown ?
Which episode in 2008 was over an hour long ?
In what year did " The Eleventh Hour " play ?
How many Doctor Who episodes have been shown , in total ?
What is the most common length of Doctor Who episodes ?
How many Doctor Who Christmas Specials have been shown ?
How long was the longest Doctor Who Christmas Special ?
In what year did Doctor Who begin being shown in HDTV ?
Who were the first two actors that played Doctor Who ?
How many of the episodes produced in the first six seasons are not in BBC 's archives ?
Which seasons is the BBC missing a total of 79 episodes ?
When did the practice of wiping tapes stop ?
What years saw the most loss of old shows in the BBC archives ?
How did other countries have copies of the show ?
Who made early colour videos of the show ?
What was the name of the Marco Polo episode ?
What type of film were excerpts from the show film on ?
How did the BBC get audio versions of the lost episodes ?
Who has released official reconstructions of Doctor Who episodes ?
Who did the BBC work with to reconstruct some of The Invasion episodes ?
What year was The Invasion originally shown ?
What animation company worked on some of The Reign of Terror episodes ?
When was the Doctor Who series released on DVD ?
What term is used to explain a change in the appearance of Doctor Who ?
When was the term " regeneration " first used ?
What first prompted the regeneration concept ?
What term was used for the first regeneration ?
What term was used for the second regeneration ?
How many times can a Time Lord regenerate ?
How many incarnations can a Time Lord have ?
In what episode did Doctor Who get a new cycle of regenerations ?
In what two serials was the number of regenerations set ?
In what year did the film also mention the number of regenerations ?
Who played the War Doctor ?
What was the name of the 50th Anniversary show ?
What actor played the Valeyard ?
What was the name of the serial where the Valeyard appears ?
What two Doctors does the War Doctor exist between ?
What Doctor was first referred to as " his secret " ?
Which episode featured the return of William Hartnell ?
Which Doctor returned for the " Children in Need " show ?
In which episode does the First Doctor see himself ?
What was the name of the 50th Anniversary episode ?
Which three doctors were in The Sirens of Time ?
What special audio recording was released for the 40th anniversary ?
Which Doctors were featured in The Four Doctors ?
Which Doctors were in Project : Lazarus ?
In what year was the Doctor Who 40th Anniversary show ?
In what episode does the " Fall of the Eleventh " happen ?
In what episode is it brought up that the First Doctor might not actually be the first Doctor ?
In what episode was the Fifth Doctor confirmed ?
In what episode does the Eleventh Doctor first acknowledge his number ?
In what year was the 20th Anniversary special aired ?
What is the name of the first Doctor Who serial ?
What is the name of Doctor Who granddaughter ?
In what year did Doctor Who state that he was the last Time Lord ?
In 2005 , what did Doctor Who think the condition of his home planet was ?
In what episode did Doctor Who acknowledge having had a brother ?
What type of creature is usually Doctor Who 's companion ?
What is the only story of the original series where Doctor Who travels alone ?
What relative of Doctor Who traveled with him in the early episodes ?
What was the occupation of Doctor Who 's other ( non-related ) companions ?
What was the name of the character known as the Time Lady ?
Since 2005 , what is the gender of Doctor Who 's primary traveling companion ?
Who were the secondary companions of the Ninth and Tenth Doctors ?
Who was the first Doctor to travel with a married couple ?
Who is the new companion for the 10th series of the revival ?
Who played the companion named Donna Noble ?
Who was the executive producer of the 2005 Doctor Who revival series ?
When were the Daleks reintroduced in the revival series ?
What icons were reintroduced in series 2 of the revival show ?
In what series was the Master reintroduced ?
Who was reintroduced for the 50th Anniversary special ?
Who are the oldest villains from the Doctor Who series ?
What planet do the Daleks come from ?
What is the primary mission of the Daleks ?
What scientist created the Daleks , by mutation ?
What is the Daleks ' main weakness ?
Who is the archenemy of Doctor Who ?
What title do both Doctor Who and the Master share ?
Who played the Master in the 1996 TV movie ?
What literary reference compares the Master to Doctor Who ?
Who was the first person to play the Master ?
Who first played the Master in the 2007 series ?
What was the 2007 episode that featured the Master 's return ?
In what year did the Master reincarnate into a female body ?
What is the nickname of the female Master ?
What actress plays the female Master ?
Who composed the original Doctor Who theme ?
What workshop helped with the creation of the Doctor Who theme ?
What kind of techniques were used to create the theme ?
When was the last season that this original theme was used ?
Upon hearing the final product , what was the creator quoted as saying ?
Who recorded the theme played for season 18 ?
Who created the theme used in 1986 ?
For which Doctor did Keff McCulloch provide the theme ?
Who created the 2005 theme for Doctor Who ?
In what show did Murray Gold modify the closing credits theme ?
What was the name of the 2007 Christmas special ?
What radio station did the Doctor Who theme reach the charts on in 2011 ?
Which series version had a negative reception from some Doctor Who viewers ?
How high did the Doctor Who theme go on the radio charts ?
Who was the creator of the theme for the 50th Anniversary special ?
Who recorded a version of the Doctor Who theme with spoken lyrics in the 1970 's ?
Who released a disco version of the Doctor Who theme ?
How high on the charts did the Mankind version of the theme go ?
What was the name of the Doctor Who-related song released in 1988 ?
Which Doctor Who-related song reached Number One in the UK ?
Who was the most frequent musical contributor to Doctor Who in the first 15 years of the show ?
What was the episode name of Simpson 's first Doctor Who score ?
In what decades was Dudley Simpson most active in contributing to Doctor Who ?
What was the last Doctor Who episode that Dudley Simpson wrote music for ?
In what episode did Dudley Simpson play a music conductor ?
Who has performed all the Doctor Who music since the 2005 Christmas special ?
Who performed a benefit concert for the charity Children in Need ?
When was a Doctor Who Prom performed ?
What Doctor Who mini-episode was shown during the Prom ?
Who has composed the Doctor Who incidental music since 2005 ?
How many Doctor Who soundtracks have been released since 2005 ?
Which series were featured on the first Doctor Who soundtrack ?
What music did the fourth soundtrack feature ?
What was the name of the 2010 Christmas special ?
When was the soundtrack for series 5 released ?
What logo was modified and reused for the 50th Anniversary special ?
Which logo had the DW Tardis insignia removed ?
What logo is used for all merchandise that features past Doctors ?
Which logo was used for the third Doctor Who 's last season ?
Which Doctor was the current Doctor during the 50th Anniversary special ?
The first episode of Doctor Who premiered the day after what famous event in history ?
Where have the first episodes of Doctor Who always appeared ?
In what years did the show see audiences as high as 12 million ?
When was the " Dalekmania " period ?
What channel shows repeats of the Doctor Who shows ?
When was Doctor Who viewing at its highest level ?
What was the main reason for the show 's suspension in 1989 ?
Fans blame the poor viewership of the late 80 's to competition from what show ?
How popular was Coronation Street in the late 80 's ?
When was the third period of high viewership for the Doctor Who series ?
What station did the 20th anniversary special show before being shown on BBC ?
What country showed all three episodes of Silver Nemesis before the BBC did ?
In what area did the 1996 television film premier ?
How many days was the 1996 film shown ahead of the BBC showing ?
When was the debut of the 1983 special called The Five Doctors ?
Which Australian TV station has run Doctor Who since 1965 ?
What did ABC contribute to the 20th anniversary special ?
Which station started showing Doctor Who after the SF channel closed ?
What did ABC do that was special in 2003 ?
What Australian channel shows first-run Doctor Who episodes ?
What year did TVOntario start showing Doctor Who episodes ?
What was the first Doctor Who show that TVOntario ran ?
What Canadian cable station started showing Doctor Who in 2009 ?
Which Doctor Who show was cancelled because it was considered racist ?
What science fiction writer introduced the Doctor Who episodes for a period of time ?
Who taped video intros for Doctor Who shows in Canada , that included a trivia question ?
What played during the closing credits of the Doctor Who episodes ?
For which show did Billie Piper tape an introduction ?
On what date was series two first shown by the CBC ?
What holiday coincided with the first showing of series two ?
What countries are the Doctor Who DVDs available to purchase ?
What shows were released on Laserdisc ?
What is the only episode released on VCD ?
What Doctor Who story from 1970 is available on Blu-ray ?
What series years are available on Blu-ray ?
Who played Doctor Who on stage in the 70 's ?
What was the name of the Doctor Who play from the 1980 's ?
What Doctor Who was written without Doctor Who in it ?
What was the name of the play performed in the 1970 's ?
Which actor was a replacement for Doctor Who due to the illness of the main actor ?
What Doctor Who spin-off series was commissioned by the BBC ?
When did Torchwood premier ?
When did the second series of Torchwood play ?
What was the name of the story from the third Torchwood series ?
Was is the name of the Torchwood series that was mostly based in the US ?
Who was the star of The Sarah Jane Adventures ?
When did the Sarah Jane series begin ?
In what year did the Tenth Doctor appear in the Sarah Jane series ?
When did the Eleventh Doctor appear in the Sarah Jane series ?
Why did the series end in 2011 ?
What special was created for the show 's 30th anniversary ?
What charity benefited from the 30th anniversary show ?
Dimensions in Time featured what prominent soap opera ?
What type of lenses were needed to see the 3D effects in Dimension in Time ?
What was the name of the 3D system effect in Dimension in Time ?
What was the name of the Doctor Who special created for Comic Relief ?
How many segments did the special originally have ?
Who played the first incarnation of the Doctor in the special ?
What actress played the last incarnation of the Doctor in the special ?
The script writer for the special went on to have what role in the revised Doctor Who series ?
What Star Trek episode has a nod to Doctor Who ?
Which Family Guy episodes contain Doctor Who references ?
What series was created by former Doctor Who producer Russell T. Davies ?
What character on Coupling is a Doctor Who fan ?
Which fantasy books have references to Doctor Who ?
What story was the first Doctor Who audio release based on ?
How long was the first audio of a Doctor Who story ?
What was the name of the first Doctor Who story released as an LP ?
In what year was the first Doctor Who audiobook released ?
What was the name of the first Doctor Who radio drama ?
Which Doctors were highlighted on the first audio releases on CD ?
What series featured Doctors from the revised version of Doctor Who ?
What company released the CD versions of the Doctor Who stories ?
What year were the first Doctor Who stories available on CD ?
When did the Fourth Doctor appear on CD ?
In what year did original fiction featuring Doctor Who appear ?
When were the earliest Doctor Who books available ?
How long has the Doctor Who Magazine been in circulation ?
Who is the publisher of the Doctor Who Adventures magazine ?
Who began publishing Doctor Who novels in 2005 ?
When was Doctor Who created ?
What company created Doctor Who ?
Who has expressed distaste for the canonicity of Doctor Who stories by other media ?
Who does not take a position on the canonicity of Doctor Who stories by other media ?
When did Doctor Who win an award for Best Drama Series ?
What years did Doctor Who win five consecutive awards ?
In what year did a Doctor first become nominated for a Best Actor award ?
What Doctor Who actress was nominated for an award in 2016 ?
What award was Michelle Gomez nominated for ?
Where is Doctor Who the record holder for most successful science fiction series of all time ?
Who holds the record for largest simulcast of a TV drama ?
For what type of music was Doctor Who considered a pioneer ?
What year did Doctor Who win a Peabody award ?
Which Doctor Who show was the largest simulcast of a TV drama ?
Which season of Doctor Who won an award for Best Writing in a Children 's Serial ?
What show is considered the best drama that the BBC has ever produced ?
What spot does Doctor Who hold in the 100 Greatest British TV Programs of the 20th Century ?
What publication called Doctor Who " The Greatest UK Science Fiction Series Ever " ?
What rank does Doctor Who hold in a list of the 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows ?
What was the most revered award that Doctor Who has won ?
How many BAFTA TV awards has Doctor Who won ?
How many BAFTA Cymru Awards has Doctor Who received ?
In what year was Doctor Who rated the third greatest show of the 2000 's ?
A Doctor Who show featuring Vincent Van Gogh was recognized by what award ?
How many times has Doctor Who won the Hugo for Best Dramatic Presentation ?
How many awards has Doctor Who been nominated for , over the years ?
How many awards has Doctor Who won ?
What Doctor Who actor won a Best Actor award in 2012 ?
What Doctor Who episode won a Hugo Award in 2010 ?
Which comedian did a parody where a Dalek appears ?
Who often plays the Fourth Doctor in comedy parodies ?
What weapon does Spike Milligan use against a Dalek ?
Who is parodied on programs such as Saturday Night Live and The Simpsons ?
What series has an actor doing an impression of the Fourth Doctor ?
What kind of university is the University of Chicago ?
When was the University of Chicago established ?
How many professional schools does the University of Chicago have ?
How many academic research divisions does the University of Chicago have ?
How many students does the University of Chicago have enlisted ?
University of Chicago scholars played a major part in what development ?
Who helped develop the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction ?
Where is the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction located ?
What is the name of the largest university press in the U.S ?
In what year will the Barack Obama Presidential Center be finished ?
What society founded the University of Chicago ?
What person helped establish the school with a donation ?
Who was the first president of the University of Chicago ?
What year was the university 's first president given his position ?
What year was the first class taught at the University of Chicago ?
Who donated property to the University of Chicago ?
Who helped pay for the university 's first building structure ?
What was the name of the first building built on campus grounds ?
How much did Silas B. Cobb pledge to the university ?
What is the name of the donor who helped establish the Hutchinson Commons ?
In 1890 , who did the university decide to team up with ?
What year did the university team up with Shimer College ?
The university agreed to grant a degree to any graduate of affiliate schoos that did what ?
Who disliked the affiliate program ?
In what year did the affiliate program end ?
Who was the university 's 5th president ?
What was the name given to the undergraduate college 's liberal-arts curriculum ?
Why did the 5th president of the university decide to get rid of the football program ?
How long did the 5th president 's tenure last ?
In what year was the university 's 5th president granted his position ?
In what year did the university first see a drop in applications ?
Why did the university see a drop in applicants ?
When were Shimer College students allowed to transfer to the University of Chicago ?
The urban renewal project was intended to help the residents of what neighborhood ?
What did the early entrant program do for potential students ?
In what year did student decide to occupy the president 's office ?
What made the student decide to occupy the president 's office in protest ?
In what year was the Kalven Report issued ?
How many pages was the Kalven Report statement ?
What policy did the Kelven Report contain ?
When did the university decide to start multimillion-dollar expansion projects ?
What institute did the university announced to everyone in 2008 ?
How much did the Milton Friedman Institute roughly cost ?
What buildings held the Milton Friedman Institute ?
Who decide to make a very large donation to the university 's Booth School of Business ?
What are the first buildings the university built knows as today ?
How many quadrangles does the Main Quadrangles have ?
Who helped designed the Main Quadrangles ?
The Mitchell Tower is designed to look like what Oxford tower ?
Hutchinson Hall was designed to look like what Oxford hall ?
During what decade did the campus start to look more modern ?
Who was assigned to design a second master plan ?
What administration did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designa buiding ?
What public policy school found it 's home in the building that Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed ?
When was the Gerald Ratner Athletics Center constructed ?
What other locations can the Booth School of Business be found ?
The Center in Paris is located near what river ?
The university established a center in Beijing in what year ?
The university 's center in Beijing is located next to what school 's campus ?
What year did the university open a center in Hong Kong ?
Who runs the University of Chicago ?
How many people belong to the university 's Board of Trustees ?
How many Vice Presidents are in the Board of Trustees ?
What is the name of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees ?
Who took Isaacs place as Provost in 2016 ?
Who is the university accredited by ?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many divisions of graduate ?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many professional schools ?
How many academic majors does the university grant in total ?
How many academic minors does the university grant in total ?
How many divisions make up the academics of the university ?
What division offers more then one branch of studies that do n't fit in with the other four ?
What is the name of the university 's core curriculum ?
During 2012-2013 , how many student were able to take the Core classes at a single time ?
UChicago claims to have what kind of learning experience compared to other universities ?
What guide states the Univeristy of Chicago is known for their heavy workload and academic difficulty ?
What is the name of the private day school for K-12 students the university runs ?
What is the name of the residential treatment program the university runs ?
How many public charter schools does the university run ?
What does the Urban Education Institute help run ?
Where is the Hyde Park Day School located ?
The University of Chicago Library system has how many libraries in total ?
How man volumes does the The University of Chicago Library system hold ?
What is the name given to the university 's main library ?
In what year was the Joe and Rika Mansueto Library constructed ?
How many volumes does the John Crerar Library roughly hold ?
How many research institutes does the university run on campus ?
How many research centers does the university run on campus ?
What is the name of the museum and research center for Near Eastern studies , that is owned by the university ?
What lab does the university have a joint stake in ?
Where is the Apache Point Observatory located ?
What role in economics did the university play a major part in ?
What was the name of the first self-sustained man-made nuclear reaction ?
What was the name of the experiment that tested how life originated ?
When was REM sleep discovered ?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in music composition ?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in Cinema & Media studies ?
When did the university start having a bachelor 's degree program in Cinema & Media studies ?
When did the university start having a bachelor 's degree program in theater & performance studies ?
Around roughly how many students enroll yearly in creative and performing arts classes ?
In the fall quarter of 2014 , how many students signed up for the college ?
In the fall quarter of 2014 , how many students signed up for the university 's four graduate divisions ?
In the fall quarter of 2014 , how many students signed up for the university 's professional schools ?
In the fall quarter of 2014 , how many students signed up for the university 's in total ?
Who made up 19 % of the student body in the 2012 Spring Quarter ?
The Maroons are apart of what association ?
The Maroons compete in what league division ?
The university was a founding force behind what conference ?
What player first won the Heisman Trophy for the university ?
Why did the university eventually leave the conference ?
Roughly how many clubs are ran at the university ?
What is the name of the organization in charge of running the clubs at the university ?
What club won 118 tournaments and 15 national championships ?
What is the name of the country 's longest continuously running student film society ?
What is the name of the student improvisational theater troupe ?
Who makes up the Student Government ?
Who leads the Student Government ?
How many vice presidents are on the Student Board ?
Roughly how much is the Student Government 's budget ?
How many fraternities are apart of the university ?
How many sororities are apart of the university ?
What is the name of the co-ed community service fraternity ?
How many sororities belong to the National Panhellenic Conference ?
How many fraternities form the University of Chicago Interfraternity Council ?
In what month is the university 's scavenger hunt ?
In what year did the scavenger hunt begin ?
What does FOTA stand for ?
What is the name of the winter festival held in January that is based on fitness ?
What is the name of the university 's summer festival ?
What Microsoft CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago ?
Who was the founder of the Oracle Corporation ?
Who is the third riches man in America ?
What Goldman Sachs CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago ?
Who founded McKinsey & Company ?
Who is the founder of modern community organizing ?
What alumni was also Obama 's campaign adviser ?
What alumni was also an Attorney General and a federal judge ?
What alumni is also the Governor of the Bank of Japan ?
What prohibition agent was also an alumni at the university ?
What alumni wrote " The Closing of the American Mind " ?
What is the name of the American writer and satirist who is also a university alumni ?
What alumni member also write the bestseller Before I Fall ?
What alumni wrote " The Good War " ?
What is the name of the Pulitzer Prize novelist who was also a university alumni ?
What minimalist composer is also a university graduate ?
What is the name of the Bungie Inc. founder who is also a university graduate ?
What video game series did Alex Seropian make ?
What American actor is also a university graduate ?
What comedian is also a university graduate ?
What astronomers is also a university alumni member ?
What NASA astronaut is also a university alumni member ?
What popular environmentalist is also a university alumni member ?
Who developed the lithium-ion battery ?
What geochemist developed the uranium-lead dating method into lead-lead dating ?
What Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner is also a university alumni member ?
What British Prime minister advisor is also a university alumni member ?
Who was the first American to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences ?
What university alumni member was known for his work on portfolio theory ?
What anthropologists are also university alumni members ?
What chess grandmaster is also a university alumni ?
What conservative international relations scholar is also a university alumni ?
Who calculated the speed of light ?
Who discovered the Compton Effect ?
Who invented the first nuclear reactor ?
Who is also known at the father of the hydrogen bomb ?
Who was the second female Nobel laureate ?
What Egyptologist was also apart of the university 's faculty ?
What mathematician was also apart of the university 's faculty ?
What meteorologist was also apart of the university 's faculty ?
Who developed the actinide concept ?
What cancer researchers were also apart of the university 's faculty ?
Who is the governor of India 's central bank ?
Hank Paulson is the former Chairman and CEO of what banking firm ?
What Shakespeare scholar is currently on the university 's faculty ?
What well known political scientists are currently on the university 's faculty ?
What paleontologists are currently on the university 's faculty ?
What is the Chinese name for the Yuan dynasty ?
What is the Yuan dynasty 's official name ?
Who started the Yuan dynasty ?
Who led the Mongolian Borjigin clan ?
When did Khan formally declare the Yuan dynasty ?
What non-Chinese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed ?
What dynasty came before the Yuan ?
What dynasty came after the Yuan ?
Who was Kublai Khan 's grandfather ?
When did Khan establish the Great Yuan ?
What writing inspired the name Great Yuan ?
What was the Yuan dynasty called in Mongolian ?
What does Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean ?
What nominal title did Yuan emperors have ?
Which tribes did Genghis Khan unite ?
When did Genghis Khan become Great Khan ?
Who was Genghis 's 3rd son ?
When did Mongke Khan become Great Khan ?
What was Kublai Khan 's relation to Ogedei Khan ?
Who did the Han Chinese want to help the Mongols fight ?
What Khitan leader defected to the Mongols ?
What Han Chinese leader defected to the Mongols ?
How many soldiers were in each Tumen ?
How many Khitan Tumens were there ?
What ethnicity was Shi Tianze ?
In what dynasty did Tianze live ?
What kind of interethnic marriage became common in the Jin dynasty ?
Who was Shi Tianze 's father ?
What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help attack ?
Who led a Mongol attack on the Song dynasty ?
Where did Mongke Khan attack the Song dynasty ?
When did Mongke Khan die ?
Who challenged Kublai Khan 's right to succeed Mongke Khan ?
What Chinese era name did Kublai adopt ?
Who was Kaidu 's grandfather ?
Where did the Song dynasty continue to cause problems for Kublai ?
Who did Kublai make the ruler of Korea ?
Where did Korea border Kublai 's territory ?
When did Li Tan lead a revolt ?
What did Kublai 's government have to balance between ?
What administrative division did Kublai leave unmodified ?
Who would have been the lowest-ranked class ?
How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai rejected ?
What natural resources did the Chinese government have a monopoly on ?
Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai moved it ?
Where did Kublai move the Mongol capital to ?
When did Kublai move the Mongol capital ?
What city later became Beijing ?
What rituals did Kublai follow to help his image ?
What kinds of growth did Kublai encourage ?
What does 'Pax Mongolica ' mean ?
Where did the Grand Canal start ?
Where did Kublai extend the Grand Canal to ?
Who described Kublai 's China to Europe ?
Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou flee with ?
When did the Jin dynasty begin ?
When did the Jin dynasty end ?
Who was appointed as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou ?
How many people in Quzhou are descended from Confucius ?
Where did Kublai build his administration 's strength ?
When did Kublai attack Xiangyang ?
What area was Kublai trying to capture by attacking Xiangyang ?
What was the Song dynasty 's capital ?
How did the final Song emperor die ?
When was Kublai 's administration running out of money ?
What interfered with Kublai 's second invasion of Japan ?
Where did the Tran dynasty rule ?
In what battle were the Mongols defeated by the Tran ?
When were the Mongols defeated by the Tran ?
When was Dali conquered by the Yuan ?
Who had Kublai wanted to succeed him ?
When did Zhenjin die ?
What was Temur Khan 's Chinese-style name ?
When did Temur rule ?
Who was the 4th to rule the Yuan dynasty ?
What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu did n't do ?
Who mentored Buyantu ?
What government department did Buyantu shut down ?
When did Buyantu resume testing potential government employees ?
Who was Ayurbarwada 's son ?
When was Geegen the emperor ?
Who did Gegeen appoint as grand chancellor ?
What did 'Da Yuan Tong Zhi ' mean ?
How many rival princes were involved in assassinating Gegeen ?
Where did Yesun Temur die ?
What was the civil war against Ragibagh also called ?
How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala die ?
Who was thought to have killed Tugh Temur ?
Who took the throne after Kusala 's death ?
What was Tugh Temur known for ?
What academy did Tugh Temur found ?
When did Tugh Temur found his academy ?
What was the most notable publication of Tugh 's academy ?
What religions did Tugh Temur follow ?
When did Tugh Temur die ?
What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal use ?
How old was Toghun Temur when he became emperor ?
How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the last of ?
Which dynasties ' histories were officially documented during Toghun 's reign ?
What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its end ?
Why did Kublai 's successors lose control of the rest of the Mongol empire ?
Who were later Yuan emperors isolated from ?
What were the Yuan armies too weak to stop ?
What were later Yuan emperors disinterested in ?
When did the Yuan people suffer a series of natural disasters ?
What uprising began in 1351 ?
Why did Toghun Temur dismiss Toghtogha ?
Who had Toghtogha tried to defeat ?
When was the Ming dynasty in power ?
What encouraged trade under the Yuan ?
What encouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan ?
What was the Yuan 's Persian ally ?
What crops were introduced or popularized in the Yuan ?
What type of musical instruments did the Yuan bring to China ?
Besides Confucianism , Buddhism , and Islam , what religions were tolerated during the Yuan ?
What religion did the Yuan discourage , to support Buddhism ?
What type of practices did the Yuan reintroduce in government ?
What fields of study were advanced during the Yuan ?
Who was the first known European to visit China and return ?
What did Polo call the Yuan capital ?
What was the English title of Polo 's book ?
What was the Italian title of Polo 's book ?
How did some suspect that Polo learned about China instead of by actually visiting it ?
What astronomer worked for Kublai ?
How accurate did Guo make the reformed lunisolar calendar ?
What did Kublai do to prevent famines ?
What city did the Grand Canal reach during the Yuan ?
What major crop was brought to China from the west ?
The Yuan was the first time all of China was ruled by whom ?
What did Mongols worship ?
What legitimate dynasty came before the Yuan ?
What legitimate dynasty came after the Yuan ?
Some Chinese considered the Yuan a legitimate dynasty , but what did other Chinese think it was ?
What cultures were part of Kublai 's administration ?
What dynasties inspired the Chinese-like elements of Kublai 's government ?
Who were two of Kublai 's Chinese advisers ?
What kind of division of power did Kublai 's government have ?
What were the three parts of Kublai 's government ?
Who had military control during the Yuan ?
When had the Six Ministries existed ?
Who were exempt from the Ministry of Justice ?
Who had no real military power during the Yuan ?
When was Phags-pa script invented ?
Which languages used the Phags-pa script ?
How well did the Mongol Emperors know Chinese ?
The mother of which emperor was a concubine ?
What was Tugh 's Chinese-style name ?
By what year was selling children into slavery common among the Mongols ?
When did Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade ?
How were the Mongol garrison families earning money ?
What type of arts flourished in the Yuan ?
Which arts were often practiced together by the same artists ?
What dynasty shared artistic inspiration with the Yuan ?
What form of poetry was developed in the Yuan ?
What was a popular type of variety show during the Yuan ?
Which khanates had converted to Islam ?
Which religion did Kublai prefer ?
What was the Yuan 's unofficial state religion ?
What government agency supervised Buddhist monks ?
What was Kublai 's favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism ?
When was Zhu Shijie born ?
When did Zhu Shijie die ?
What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work similar to ?
What type of math was advanced during the Yuan ?
When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Four Unknowns ' ?
What did Guo Shoujing do for calendars ?
What did Gou use for astronomy ?
What was the Chinese name of Gou 's calendar ?
What was the English name of Gou 's calendar ?
When did Gou 's calendar become the official calendar of the Yuan ?
Who were otachi ?
What type of medicine did otachi focus on ?
What type of medicine did Mongol shamans use ?
What department did Kublai create to train doctors ?
Why did Confucians like the medical field ?
How many schools of medicine were recognized in China ?
How did the Yuan come to have the 4 schools of medicine ?
How did Chinese medicine spread ?
What techniques did Chinese medicine include ?
When did Wei Yilin die ?
What was huihui ?
Who founded the Office of Western Medicine ?
When was the Office of Western Medicine founded ?
What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese dislike ?
What philosophies underlay Chinese medicine ?
How did the Mongols acquire Chinese printing technology ?
Who wrote the Nong Shu ?
When was earthenware movable type invented ?
Who was Ogedei 's wife ?
When was the Imperial Library Directorate established ?
What was the Yuan 's paper money called ?
What were chao made out of ?
When did the Yuan begin using bronze printing plates for its money ?
What had the Yuan used to print its money before bronze plates ?
When did the Il-khanate experiment with paper money ?
What Mongolian system did Kublai 's government compromise with ?
What Chinese system did Kublai 's government compromise with ?
Who were the Semuren ?
How did the unequal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem ?
Where were Persians more successful compared to Chinese in the Yuan ?
Who did the Mongols bring to China as administrators ?
Who did the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators ?
Where in Central Asia did the Han Chinese move ?
What types of work did the Han do in Central Asia ?
Who was made Governor of Samarqand ?
What Yuan policies did Muslims dislike ?
What Jewish practice did the Yuan ban ?
Who founded the Ming dynasty ?
What was the second meaning of a Chinese word for 'barracks ' ?
Who revolted in the Ispah Rebellion ?
Who thought that the Yuan 's social class system should n't be called social classes ?
What did Mote think the Yuan class system really represented ?
There were many Chinese with what unexpected status ?
There were many Mongols with what unexpected status ?
Which part of China had people ranked higher in the class system ?
Which part of China had people ranked lower in the class system ?
Why were Southern Chinese ranked lower ?
Why were Northern Chinese ranked higher ?
Who did the Yuan 's increase in commerce help ?
Who did the Mongols give control of Korea ?
Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked above ?
Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked above ?
Why were the Uighurs ranked higher by the Mongols ?
What region of China is Hebei part of ?
Who governed the Central Region in the Yuan ?
Where was the Central Secretariat based ?
What modern city did Khanbaliq become ?
What was the Chinese name for the Central Secretariat ?
Where is Kenya located ?
What is Kenya a founding member of ?
What is the capitol of Kenya ?
What country boarders the south of Kenya ?
What was the population of Kenya in 2014 ?
What type of climate does Kenya have ?
How is the climate near the savannah grasslands ?
What mountain has snow on it all year round ?
What regions do the north-eastern part of the country boarder ?
What is Kenya known for ?
How long has the African Great Lakes region been inhabited ?
When did the Bantu expansion reach the area from West-Central Africa ?
Where is 97 % of the population located ?
When did the exploration of the interior begin ?
When did Kenya obtain independence ?
What is the Republic of Kenya named after ?
What words to they think are linked to the work Kenya ?
What do the words Kirinyaga , Kirenyaa , and Kiinyaa mean ?
Ludwig Krapf recorded the name was what ?
What do some believe about this pronunciation ?
Who was the Scottish geologist that named Mt Kenya as Mt Kenia ?
What year did Thompsons indicate Mt Kenya ?
What are the biggest game animals of Kenya called ?
What are the " Big Five " animals in Kenya ?
Where are these animals mostly located ?
When does the annual animal migration occur ?
How far do the wildebeest migrate searching for food and water ?
How long ago did primates inhabit Kenya ?
When did the ancestors of modern Homo sapiens inhabit Kenya ?
Who helped discover the Turkana Boy ?
How old was Turkana Boy ?
Who was responsible for the preliminary archaeological research at Ologesailie and Hyrax Hill ?
Who build the major port city in Kenya ?
What is the name of the port city that was created ?
What voyager said that Mombasa was a great harbour and moored small crafts and great ships ?
Where do many merchants and explorers go ?
What is an important Swahili settlement along the coast ?
When was the City of Malindi established ?
When was the outbreak of World War I ?
What two governors agreed to a truce to protect their young colonies ?
Who was in command of the German military forces ?
How did von Lettow conduct his group ?
Where did von Lettow surrender at ?
Where were the Kikuyu people located ?
How did the Kikuyu people live ?
How did the settlers protect their interests ?
How many white settlers were living in Kenya in the 1950 's ?
When was Waruhiu Itote captured ?
What did this help accomplish ?
When did Operation Anvil open ?
How many of the Mau Mau did Home Gaurd kill ?
What was the most important governmental change to land tenure ?
When was the first direct elections for native Kenyans ?
Who formed the government in Kenya ?
When did the different colonies come together and form Kenya ?
When did Kenya become an independent country ?
What did Kenya name itself on December 12 , 1964 ?
What is the mlolongo system ?
What did mlolongo system lead to ?
Who won the elections in 1992 and 1997 ?
What kind of government does Kenya have ?
What titles are the President given ?
Who is the executive power ?
Who is in control of legislative power ?
What branch is independant of the other branches ?
Where does Kenya rang on the CPI scale ?
What does the CPI scale measure ?
Where is Kenya place on the scale in 2012 ?
How does Kenya curb coruption ?
What party is President Kibaki part of ?
Who did President Kibaki run against ?
What led to protests and open discrediting of the ECK ?
Who called themselves the " People 's President " ?
What did the government and civil society organisations start after the riots ?
What group initiated the community dialogues ?
What group started peace meetings ?
What was started after these new programs were in place ?
When did Kibaki and Odinga sing an agreement on the formation of government ?
What would be Odinga 's role in the government ?
Where did the president appoint cabinet members from ?
How was it determined how many from each camp would be appointed ?
How long would this coalition last ?
What will the Prime Minister have power over ?
Who brought together the former rivals at the signing ceremony ?
Where was the signing held ?
When did representatives start working on the finer details of the deal ?
What was the goal of the grand coalition ?
What constitutional change was considered ?
When was a vote help to ratify the change to the constitution ?
What else did the new consitution change ?
When was the new constitution promulgated ?
What came into force after the new constitution was herald ?
When did President Uhuru Kenyatta sign a Security Law Amendment Bill ?
Why was this bill nessecary ?
Who criticised the security bill ?
Why did so many not approve of the bill ?
Who warned of the potential impact ?
What was the result of the 2007 election ?
Who decided not to come visit the country in 2013 ?
Where did Kenyatta visit at the invitation of the President ?
When did Obama finally visit Kenya ?
What kind of missions are the armed forces regularly deployed for ?
What was part of the aftermath of the elections in 2007 ?
What kind of allegations were brought after the 2007 election ?
What other forces were tainted by corruption allegations ?
Why has the corruption not be in the public view ?
What were the claims of corruption in the armed forces ?
What else was publically questioned ?
What is Kenya 's HDI ?
Who is the biggest and most advanced economy in east and central Africa ?
How much does 17.7 % of the population live on a day ?
What kind of market is Kenya considered ?
What was East and Central Africa 's economy boosted by ?
What is an important catalyst of economic growth ?
What is the smalled work force sector ?
What percent of the labor force work in agriculture ?
How much does the services sector contribute to GDP ?
What is the service sector dominated by ?
Has the tourism sector had growth or reduction ?
What attracts the tourists to Kenya ?
Where is the largest number of tourist coming from ?
How much of the GDP was agriculture in 2005 ?
What are the principal cash crops in Kenya ?
What is the second largest contrubtor to Kenyas GDP ?
What can cause fluctuations in the production of corn ?
What institution has helped farmers grow new pigeon pea varieties ?
Why did they teach them to grow peas ?
How did the project encourage the commercialisation of legumes ?
How did this effect the producer prices ?
What has the increase of prices caused ?
Where is the most successful agricultural prodcution regions ?
What is grown in the fertile highlands ?
Where does the livestock of the country normally dominate ?
What percent live below the povertly line ?
What program did Red Cross put together in 2011 ?
What country is the most industrially developed country in the African Great Lakes Region ?
How much of GDP does manufactoriing account for ?
What are the three largest urban areas in Kenya ?
What does the sector known as Jua Kali engage in ?
What has given a boost to manufacturing in recent years ?
What year did AGOA take effect ?
Where does the largest part of Kenya 's power come from ?
Where are these dams located ?
When was Kenya Electricity Generating Company established ?
Where does Kenya have deposits of oil ?
How many barrels of oil is it estimated Kenya has ?
What is Kenya doing to determine if there are more reserves ?
How much does petroleum account for of the national import bill ?
How much is China 's investment in Kenya ?
What does China 's investment mean for Kenya ?
What did the Kenyan business people hope for when meeting with the Chinese ?
Where did the first shipment of minerals ship from ?
What has caused China to suspend their railway project ?
What did Kenya reveil in 2030 ?
What is Vision 2030 ?
What was their first plan that was launched ?
Why did Vision 2030 add the NCCAP ?
What will ensure and create the framework for the Action Plan to work ?
Where are most working children working ?
What percent of girls are in prostution in Kenyas coastal areas ?
What is the age range of most prostitutes in Kenya ?
What are some of the causes of child labor ?
What language is spoken in Kenya ?
What are the two official languages ?
Where is English spoken the most ?
Where is British English usually used ?
What is the main religion in Kenya ?
What is the main denomination of Christians in Kenya ?
How many followers does The Presbyterian Church of East Africa have ?
Where is the only Jewish synagogue located ?
How many Kenyans are non-religious ?
What percent of the Muslim population lives in Kenya 's Coastal Region ?
What religion is the western region mostly ?
How much of the population is Hindu ?
Who treats the majority of the population medically ?
Who sees a patient after a nurse can not help anymore ?
How many registered nurses were in Kenya in 2011 ?
How many doctors were in Kenya in 2011 ?
What directly correlates with the country 's economic performance and wealth distribution ?
How many Kenyans are living below the poverty level ?
What are the biggest burdens ?
What is to blame for the burdens in health care in Kenya ?
How many cases of malaria did Kenya report in 2006 ?
Who introduced the first system of education ?
When did Kenya gain independance ?
What was formed to introduce changes that would reflect the nation 's sovereignty ?
What did the Ominde Commission do ?
What system was adopted for education ?
What was the Presidential Working Party on the Second University commissioned to do ?
What did they want the educational system to be ?
What is the edcuation system currently ?
When did the last batch of students that followed the former system graudate ?
When was the 8-4-4 system launched ?
What was the emphasis focuses on ?
Why were vocational subjects most important ?
When was free primary school introduced ?
How much did enrollment increase ?
What age does basic education start ?
What is the break down of years at different level of education ?
What do students do after primary school ?
What can students that complete high school have opportunites to do ?
What is Kenya 's literacy rate ?
Preschool targest what age children ?
What is preschool required for ?
What does the KCPE determine ?
What is the exam at the end of Form Four ?
Who leads the National and Public Library Servies ?
What is the KNLS responsible for ?
What is the public library seen as to Kenyans ?
Why is the public library known as a people 's university ?
What sports are Kenyans active in ?
What is the country known for ?
Who dominates the world of long distance running ?
What countries does Kenya compete with for long distance running ?
How many gold medals did Kenya win during the Beijing Olympics ?
How well did Kenya do in the Beijing Olympics ?
What else did Pamela Jelimo win after the Olympics ?
Why has there been controversy in Kenyan athletics ?
Why do these defections occur ?
What sport has Kenyan women been a dominate force ?
What is the most successful team sport in Kenya ?
When did Kenya reach the semi-finals ?
Who is the current captian of the cricket team ?
When was the suspension by FIFA lifted ?
What is Kenya the home of ?
What is the Safair Rally known as ?
Who are some of the best rally drivers that have won the rally ?
How many meals a day do normal Kenyans eat ?
What time do they normally have tea ?
What are some normal breakfast foods ?
What is normally eaten for lunch and supper ?
What organization is the IPCC a part of ?
What UN organizations established the IPCC ?
What does the UN want to stabilize ?
What is the UN 's climate change treaty ?
What UN resolution endorsed the IPCC ?
Who is the chair of the IPCC ?
What nationality is Hoesung Lee ?
Who is the vice-chair of the IPCC ?
Who was the first chair of the IPCC ?
When did Pachauri resign as chair of the IPCC ?
Who is on the IPCC Panel ?
How many people attended the 2003 IPCC meeting ?
What kind of people attend the IPCC meetings ?
How much of the IPCC attendees are government representatives ?
When was the IPCC Trust Fund founded ?
Who started the IPCC Trust Fund ?
Who funds the IPCC 's Deputy Secretary ?
What rules does the IPCC have to follow ?
Who funds the IPCC 's Secretary ?
What does the IPCC not do ?
Where do IPCC reports get their information ?
What is 'grey literature ' ?
What kind of non-peer-reviewed sources does the IPCC use ?
How many coordinating lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have ?
How many lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have ?
How many contributing authors does an IPCC report chapter have ?
Who assembles the authors ' contributions ?
Who do coordinating lead authors report to ?
What does the WG I Summary for Policymakers report say human activities are doing to greenhouse gases ?
What do increased greenhouse gases cause ?
How much of the greenhouse effect is due to carbon dioxide ?
What is the scenario called in which we do n't change our greenhouse gas creation practices ?
How much has global mean surface air temperature changed in the last century ?
When was the joint statement on climate change issued ?
How many organizations issued the joint statement on climate change ?
Which journal was the joint statement published in ?
How sure did the statement say scientists were that temperatures would keep rising ?
How much did the statement predict global surface temperature would increase by 2100 ?
Which IPCC author criticized the TAR ?
What did Lindzen criticize about the Summary for Policymakers ?
Who responded to Lindzen 's criticisms ?
What was Houghton 's role ?
What did Houghton say is necessary for any changes to the SPM ?
How does the IPCC prepare Special Reports ?
When was the Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation ( SRREN ) issued ?
When was the Special Report on Managing Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation ( SREX ) issued ?
Why were the 2011 Special Reports issued ?
What other activities does the UNFCCC require the IPCC to run ?
What is used to estimate emissions ?
Levels of what things are used to determine emission factors ?
What councils assign tasks to the IPCC ?
What did the IPCC say was mistaken ?
What did the IPCC apologize for ?
What was the source of the mistake ?
What report had the correct date ?
What was Robert Watson 's role in the IPCC ?
What direction did Watson say the mistake went in ?
What was Martin Parry 's role in the IPCC ?
What was the topic of the error ?
What was the verdict on other alleged errors ?
When was the paper published that the " Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction " graph was based on ?
Who wrote the paper that the " Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction " graph was based on ?
What is the nickname for the " Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction " graph ?
What reconstructions supported the 1999 paper 's information ?
What range of years was the current warming compared to ?
Who led the Science and Environmental Policy Project ?
Where did Singer hold a press conference in May 2000 ?
When did Singer dispute the graph at a Senate hearing ?
What Senate committee did Singer speak to in July 2000 ?
Who was the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce ?
Who was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ?
When did Barton and Whitfield demand climate research records ?
Who was chairman of the House Science Committee ?
Who said Barton 's investigation was " misguided and illegitimate " ?
When was the IPCC Third Assessment Report published ?
When was the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report published ?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions covered 1,000+ years ?
What problem did some tree ring data have ?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions were used ?
When was a study published confirming the 2001 IPCC projections ?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality for 2001-2006 ?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on temperature levels ?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on sea levels ?
What danger did the IPCC understate ?
How much did the IPCC Third Assessment Report say sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100 ?
How much do researchers now think sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100 ?
When was the Third Assessment Report published ?
What role did Michael Oppenheimer have in the IPCC 's reports ?
Who published the State of the Planet 2008-2009 report ?
What approach did Oppenheimer advocate ?
What has successfully dealt with ozone depletion ?
What did the Kyoto Protocol try to address ?
Whose goals often still oppose the IPCC ?
Who said people involved in the ozone situation had " a better understanding of scientific ignorance and uncertainties " ?
What remain unsolved problems with the Kyoto Protocol ?
What conflicts did the ozone mitigation reduce ?
Who ordered the Stern Review ?
What does the IPCC rely on for research ?
What can the IPCC 's report deadlines cause to be omitted ?
Who is seen as the ultimate climate change authority ?
How many scientists called to change the IPCC in Feb 2010 ?
Where was the Feb 2010 call for change published ?
What was one proposal to let the IPCC respond to new evidence faster ?
How was it suggested that the IPCC avoid political problems ?
What is the primary purpose of chloroplasts ?
What does ATP store ?
What does NADPH store ?
What is the process of turning CO2 into organic molecules called ?
How many chloroplasts per cell does algae have ?
How do chloroplasts reproduce ?
What influences chloroplasts ' behavior ?
How are chloroplasts similar to mitochondria ?
What was the ancestor of chloroplasts ?
How do plants get chloroplasts ?
Which organisms have chloroplasts ?
What nationality was Konstantin Mereschkowski ?
What was Konstantin Mereschkowski 's career ?
When did Konstantin Mereschkowski suggest the origin of chloroplasts ?
Who said chloroplasts are similar to cyanobacteria ?
What are chloroplasts descended from ?
What type of organism are cyanobacteria ?
What does 'gram-negative ' mean ?
What kind of cell wall do cyanobacteria have ?
How are cyanobacteria sometimes wrongly described ?
What kind of cell did cynaobacteria enter long ago ?
How long ago did cyanobacteria enter a cell ?
What surrounds chloroplasts ?
What kind of membrane came from the host ?
What happened when cyanobacteria was assimilated ?
What does 'plastid ' mean ?
How many chloroplast lineages are there ?
What does rhodophyte mean ?
What does chloroplastidan mean ?
Which lineage includes land plants ?
What chloroplast lineage is Cyanophora in ?
What kind of organism is Cyanophora ?
What are muroplasts ?
What do concentric unstacked thylakoids surround ?
What kind of structure is a carboxysome ?
What kinds of pigments do rhodoplasts have ?
What are rhodoplasts ' phycobilin pigments combined into ?
What makes red algae red ?
What is the benefit of red algae being red ?
What is floridean ?
What do red algal chloroplasts have that green chloroplasts do n't ?
Why are n't some forms of Hæmatococcus pluvialis green ?
What do n't chloroplastidan chloroplasts have ?
What have some plants repurposed the peptidoglycan layer genes for ?
What do green chloroplasts have instead of phycobilisomes ?
What kind of membrane do primary chloroplasts have ?
What differs about secondary chloroplasts ' membranes ?
What was the secondary endosymbiotic event ?
What additional membranes do secondary chloroplasts have ?
What was left when engulfed algae was broken down ?
What kind of chloroplasts do Euglenophytes have ?
What kind of protists are Euglenophytes ?
How are the pyrenoid and thylakoids arranged ?
What does paramylon store ?
Which membrane was lost in euglenophyte chloroplasts ?
What is another word for cryptophytes ?
What kind of chloroplasts do cryptophytes have ?
What part of cryptophyte chloroplasts is similar to chlorarachniophytes ?
Where do cryptophyte chloroplasts store starch ?
How do cryptophyte chloroplasts arrange their pyrenoid and thylakoids ?
What are Apicomplexans similar to ?
What are Apicomplexans a type of ?
What is Plasmodium ?
What is an apicoplast ?
Where do Apicomplexans store energy ?
What do apicoplasts synthesize ?
What kind of diseases do drugs target apicoplasts for ?
What is the most important thing apicoplasts do ?
What are apicoplasts missing ?
How many membranes do apicoplasts have ?
What is only found in peridinin-type chloroplasts ?
Where is Peridinin found ?
How are peridinin-type chloroplasts ' thylakoids arranged ?
What have peridinin-type chloroplasts lost ?
What lineage is Karlodinium in ?
What lineage is Karenia in ?
How many membranes does the haptophyte chloroplast have ?
What is tertiary endosymbiosis of haptophyte chloroplasts expected to create ?
Where did Dinophysis get its chloroplasts from ?
What have the Dinophysis chloroplasts lost ?
What is the chloroplast of Dinophysis ?
What is left of the Dinophysis chloroplasts ?
What is another word for diatom ?
What is Durinskia 's chloroplast ?
How many membranes does Durinskia 's chloroplast have ?
What is sometimes but not always counted regarding Durinskia 's chloroplast membranes ?
Where does the diatom endosymbiont store starch ?
Where do nucleomorph genes transfer to ?
What is the only dinophyte that has a non-rhodoplast chloroplast ?
What did Lepidodinium viride lose ?
What did Lepidodinium viride replace their original chloroplast with ?
What is a prasinophyte ?
Where did most chloroplasts come from ?
What is different about Paulinella chromatophora ?
How many base pairs are there in Chromatophore DNA ?
How many protein-encoding genes are there in Chromatophore DNA ?
How many base pairs are there in Synechococcus DNA ?
What is chloroplast DNA abbreviated as ?
What is a synonym for chloroplast DNA ?
When was the plastome discovered ?
When was the first plastome sequenced ?
Who sequenced the first plastome ?
What seldom mutates ?
What have some inverted repeats become ?
What could inverted repeats help do ?
How is chloroplast replication observed ?
How many major chloroplast replication models have been suggested ?
What is a Cairns replication intermediate ?
What is a D-loop ?
How does the D-loop finish replicating ?
What kind of gradients does cpDNA have ?
What makes DNA vulnerable to deamination ?
How does the secondary theory say most cpDNA is structured ?
How does the secondary theory say most cpDNA replicates ?
Where does the secondary theory say most genes are kept ?
What is cpDNA 's replication similar to ?
What kind of cpDNA does maize have ?
How is most plants ' cpDNA arranged ?
How does most plants ' cpDNA replicate ?
What shows us lost chloroplasts ?
What do donated genes give evidence of ?
What kind of chloroplasts do diatoms have ?
What kind of chloroplasts did diatoms have but lost ?
What is the status of most chloroplast genes in the mitochondrion ?
How much of the protein products of transferred genes do n't go back to chloroplasts ?
What new tasks do the protein products of transferred genes take on ?
What do you have to cross to reach the chloroplast in many secondary plastids ?
What is the chloroplast polypeptide synthesized on ?
Where is the chloroplast polypeptide synthesized ?
What does Phosphorylation do ?
What is the benefit of polypeptide binding ?
How are chloroplasts in land plants usually shaped ?
How large across are chloroplasts in land plants ?
How thick are chloroplasts in land plants ?
What shape is Oedogonium 's chloroplasts ?
What shape is Chlamydomonas 's chloroplasts ?
What is evidence chloroplasts descended from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria ?
What is incorrectly thought about the outer chloroplast membrane ?
How do both chloroplast membranes compare to cyanobacterium 's original double membranes ?
What is the chloroplast double membrane sometimes compared to ?
What does the inner mitochondria membrane do ?
What does oxidative phosphorylation do ?
What chloroplast structure is similar to the inner mitochondria membrane ?
What part of chloroplasts is n't similar to mitochondria ?
What are more common in other plastids than chloroplasts ?
What is a stromule ?
Why do stromules exist ?
When were stromules discovered ?
Where is the chloroplast peripheral reticulum usually found ?
Where is the chloroplast peripheral reticulum less commonly found ?
What is a maze of membranous tubes ?
What does the chloroplast peripheral reticulum do ?
Where do transport vesicles move between ?
What do chloroplasts use their ribosomes for ?
How large are Chloroplast ribosomes ?
How large are Cytoplasmic ribosomes ?
What are some Chlorophyta and euglenid chloroplasts missing ?
Why is shine-dalgarno sequence recognition important ?
What is a single Plastoglobuli called ?
What shape are Plastoglobuli ?
What are Plastoglobuli made of ?
How large are Plastoglobuli ?
What surrounds Plastoglobuli ?
What are Plastoglobuli attached to ?
What do Plastoglobuli exchange contents with ?
How are green chloroplasts ' Plastoglobuli arranged ?
When do Plastoglobuli occur in linked groups ?
Where are pyrenoids found ?
What shape are pyrenoids ?
What do pyrenoids look like ?
What do pyrenoids store ?
How can pyrenoids replicate ?
In what model do grana look like pancakes ?
What shape are granal thylakoids ?
How many granal thylakoids can be in each granum ?
How many granal thylakoids are usually in each granum ?
What are frets ?
What does chlorophyll absorb ?
What do carotenoids absorb ?
What does chlorophyll use light energy to do ?
What does the thylakoid membrane use the energized electrons for ?
What is ATP synthase similar to ?
How many types of thylakoids are there ?
What distinguishes granal thylakoids ?
What distinguishes stromal thylakoids ?
What shape are granal thylakoids ?
How large are granal thylakoids ?
How many photosynthetic carotenoids are there ?
What do photosynthetic carotenoids do ?
Why do carotenoids make leaves change color in the fall ?
What is beta carotene ?
What is the most common Xanthophyll ?
What are Phycobilins ?
What color is phycoerytherin ?
What does phycoerytherin appear in ?
What are phycobilisomes ?
How big are phycobilisomes ?
What do chloroplasts use to fix carbon dioxide into sugar ?
What is rubisco 's flaw ?
What effect does rubisco 's flaw have ?
What process down the line does rubisco 's flaw interfere with ?
What is wasted by rubisco 's flaw ?
What are chloroplasts in mesophyll cells specialized for ?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells lack ?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells specialized use to make ATP ?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells store carbon dioxide in ?
What do bundle sheath chloroplasts specialize in ?
What parts of plants have chloroplasts ?
What makes plants green ?
What plant cells have chloroplasts in them ?
Where can chloroplasts sometimes be found ?
What is a chlorenchyma cell ?
Where do cacti have chloroplasts ?
Where do most plants have chloroplasts ?
How many chloroplasts are in stomatal guard cells ?
How many chloroplasts are in a square mm of a leaf ?
What layers of a leaf have chloroplasts ?
When do chloroplasts spread out flat ?
When do chloroplasts arrange in vertical columns or turn sideways ?
What does turning sideways protect chloroplasts from ?
Why do land plants have more and smaller chloroplasts ?
What sometimes follows moving chloroplasts ?
How many major immune responses do plants have ?
What is the hypersensitive response of a plant immune system ?
What is the systemic acquired resistance response of a plant immune system ?
How do chloroplasts trigger the plant 's immune system ?
What does damaging photosynthesis systems create ?
What molecules act as defense signals ?
When do chloroplasts produce defense signals ?
What happens to reactive oxygen species signals since they do n't leave the chloroplast ?
What is retrograde signaling ?
What is the most important role of chloroplasts ?
What is the process of changing light into chemical energy ?
What is chemical energy used to produce in plants ?
What are the molecular inputs for photosynthesis ?
What are the molecular outputs for photosynthesis ?
What do chloroplasts do like mitochondria ?
Where do chloroplasts pump hydrogen ?
How concentrated do the hydrogen ions get in the thylakoid space ?
What does ATP synthase change into ATP ?
What does ATP mean ?
What usually takes reenergized electrons ?
In what process are electrons recycled ?
Where is cyclic photophosphorylation common ?
What do C4 plants need ?
What cycle starts with rubisco ?
What is the result of the Calvin cycle ?
What do unstable 6-carbon molecules become ?
How many G3P molecules leave the cycle ?
What is an alternate way to make starch ?
When might starch grains become overly large ?
What happens when starch grains become overly large ?
What root problem can cause starch buildup ?
What might starch grains be a side effect of ?
What can rubisco do by mistake ?
When does photorespiration happen ?
Why is using O2 instead of CO2 less efficient ?
How much carbon gets wasted by using O2 instead of CO2 ?
What is unusual about C4 plants ' chloroplasts ?
Where do chloroplasts make amino acids ?
Which amino acids contain sulfur ?
What is the problem with cysteine ?
What are we unsure of about how chloroplasts make methionine precursors ?
What is sometimes used interchangeably with 'plastids ' ?
What do a plant 's chloroplasts descend from ?
Where are Proplastids usually found ?
What is more often seen in root tip maristems ?
What happens if angiosperm shoots do n't get enough light ?
What is an etioplast ?
What do etioplasts ' internal membranes have ?
What do etioplasts have instead of chlorophyll ?
What plants do n't need light to make chloroplasts ?
What can chloroplasts change into ?
What are chromoplasts ?
What can amyloplasts become ?
What can proplastids become ?
When a plant is injured , what can become proplastids ?
What do FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 combine into ?
What are FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 ?
What do FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 plus ARC6 form ?
Where is the Z-ring ?
What gets the Z-ring in the right place ?
What are PD rings ?
How many PD rings are there ?
How large are the outer PD ring 's filaments ?
How far apart are the outer PD ring 's filaments ?
What is different about Cyanidioschyzon merolæ ?
What is necessary for chloroplasts to replicate ?
What kind of light is important for chloroplasts to divide ?
What do chloroplasts look like in spinach grown in green light ?
What kind of light is inadequate for chloroplasts to divide ?
Why are chloroplasts of interest in GMO crops ?
What is reduced by using plastid transformation for gene modification ?
What was the containment failure rate in a tobacco plant study using plastid transformation ?
What are plants with plastid gene transformations called ?
What is the only divisor besides 1 that a prime number can have ?
What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 3 or more numbers called ?
What theorem defines the main role of primes in number theory ?
Any number larger than 1 can be represented as a product of what ?
Why must one be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem ?
What is the name of the property that designates a number as being prime or not ?
What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a number n ?
What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers ?
What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers ?
As of January 2016 how many digits does the largest known prime consist of ?
How many prime numbers exist ?
Who established the amount of prime numbers in existence ?
What type of behavior in primes is it possible to determine ?
What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its logarithm ?
When was the prime number theorem proven ?
What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 2 can be represented as the sum of two primes ?
What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is 2 ?
Besides the analytic property of numbers , what other property of numbers does number theory focus on ?
What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is very challenging ?
What is the name of one algebraic generalization prime numbers have inspired ?
Any even number larger than what can not be considered prime ?
What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 2 ?
What name is given to any prime number larger than 2 ?
Besides 1,3 and 7 , what other number must all primes greater than 5 end with ?
What type of numbers are always multiples of 2 ?
What number did early Greeks not regard as a true number ?
Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 18th century ?
In the mid 18th century , who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number ?
How many primes were included in Derrick Norman Lehmer 's list of prime numbers ?
What type of number do modern mathematicians consider 1 to be ?
Which theorem would be invalid if the number 1 were considered prime ?
The sieve of Eratosthenes would not be valid if what were true ?
What is another function that primes have that the number 1 does not ?
What is one function that prime numbers have that 1 does not ?
If 1 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers ?
What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of prime numbers ?
What civilization was the first known to clearly study prime numbers ?
What work from around 300 BC has significant theorems about prime numbers ?
Who demonstrated how to create a perfect number from a Mersenne prime ?
What does the Sieve of Eratosthenes do ?
In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Fermat 's little theorem ?
Besides Leibniz , what other mathematician proved the validity of Fermat 's little theorem ?
Of what form do Fermat numbers take ?
Of what form do Mersenne primes take ?
To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Fermat numbers ?
What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any integer n ?
What makes the method of trial division more efficient ?
Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m greater than what ?
How many divisions are required to verify the primality of the number 37 ?
What must the integer m be less than or equal to when performing trial division ?
How many modern types of primality tests for general numbers n are there ?
What is the name of one type of modern primality test ?
What is the name of another type of modern primality test ?
What type of algorithm is trial division ?
When using a probabilistic algorithm , how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically ?
What is one straightforward case of a probabilistic test ?
What does the Fermat primality test depend upon ?
What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Fermat primality test ?
What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Fermat primality test ?
What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Fermat primality test ?
Of what form are Sophie Germain primes ?
Of what form are Mersenne primes ?
What test is especially useful for numbers of the form 2p - 1 ?
What is the name of one type of prime where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape ?
What is the name of another type of prime here p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape ?
What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find prime numbers ?
In what year was the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search project conducted ?
the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search , what was the prize for finding a prime with at least 10 million digits ?
What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 100 million digits ?
In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct form discovered in ?
What is name of the function used for the largest integer not greater than the number in question ?
Who first proved Bertrand 's postulate ?
For what size natural number does Bertrand 's postulate hold ?
How is the prime number p in Bertrand 's postulate expressed mathematically ?
On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely once based on ?
What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many primes can exist only if a and q are coprime ?
If a and q are coprime , which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of primes ?
What is the density of all primes compatible with a modulo 9 ?
If q=9 and a=3,6 or 9 , how many primes would be in the progression ?
If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5,7 , or 8 , how many primes would be in a progression ?
What function is related to prime numbers ?
What type of value would the zeta function have if there were finite primes ?
What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 + ... shows that there is an infinite number of primes ?
What does it mean when a harmonic series diverges ?
Of what mathematical nature is the Basel problem ?
When was the Riemann hypothesis proposed ?
According to the Riemann hypothesis , all zeroes of the ζ-function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s ?
What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of points comes from ?
What type of prime distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X ?
What type of prime distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x ?
Which conjecture holds that every even integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes ?
When did Landau propose his four conjectural problems ?
As of February 2011 , how many numbers has Goldbach 's conjecture been proven to ?
Which theorem states that all large odd integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes ?
Which theorem states that every large even integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime ?
What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin primes ?
What is a twin prime ?
Which conjecture holds that for any positive integer n , there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n ?
Of what form is the infinite amount of primes that comprise the special cases of Schinzel 's hypothesis ?
What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 4 primes between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2 ?
Besides the study of prime numbers , what general theory was considered the official example of pure mathematics ?
What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no military benefit ?
When was it discovered that prime numbers could applied to the creation of public key cryptography algorithms ?
Besides public key cryptography , what is another application for prime numbers ?
What type of number generators make use of prime numbers ?
Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5 , then , according to Fermat 's theorem , what type of decimal will 1/p always be ?
According to Fermat 's theorem , what period does 1/p always have assuming p is prime that is not 2 or 5 ?
According to Wilson 's theorem , what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime ?
According to Wilson 's theorem , what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite ?
What condition what must be satisfied in order for 1/p to be expressed in base q instead of base 10 and still have a period of p - 1 ?
What is one type of public key cryptography algorithm ?
What is another type of public key cryptography algorithm ?
How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA public key cryptography algorithms ?
On what type of exponentiation does the Diffie–Hellman key exchange depend on ?
How many bits are typically used in the primes for the Diffie–Hellman key exchange ?
What type of insect employs the use of prime numbers in its evolutionary strategy ?
Where do cicadas spend the majority of their lives ?
Other than 7 and 13 , what other year interval do cicadas pupate ?
What is the logic behind the cicadas prime number evolutionary strategy ?
How much larger would cicada predator populations be if cicada outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals ?
What does the word prime generally suggest ?
For a field F containing 0 and 1 , what would be the prime field ?
How can any knot be distinctively indicated ?
What is an additional meaning intended when the word prime is used ?
What does it mean for a knot to be considered indecomposable ?
What is the name of an algebraic structure in which addition , subtraction and multiplication are defined ?
What is one general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings ?
What is another general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings ?
What is one condition that an element p of R must satisfy in order to be considered a prime element ?
Under what condition is an element irreducible ?
What theorem remains valid in unique factorization domains ?
What is one example of a unique factorization domain ?
What form do complex Gaussian integers have ?
What do a and b represent in a Gaussian integer expression ?
Of what form are rational primes ?
In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of an ideal ?
What type of ideals generalize prime elements ?
What type of number theory utilizes and studies prime ideals ?
Which theorem can be simplified to the Lasker–Noether theorem ?
What type of commutative ring does the Lasker–Noether theorem express every ideal as an intersection of primary ideals in ?
What are the points of algebro-geometric objects ?
What does factorization of prime ideals approximate ?
In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating quadratic reciprocity ?
What does quadratic reciprocity seek to achieve ?
What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by p ?
To what may general global fields be transferred to or from ?
Completing Q with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers ?
What principle highlights the significance of primes in number theory
Which French composer wrote ametrical music using prime numbers ?
What is one work by Olivier Messiaen ?
What is another piece created by Olivier Messiaen ?
In which etude of Neumes rythmiques do the primes 41 , 43 , 47 and 53 appear in ?
Messiaen says that composition with prime numbers was inspired by what ?
Where does the Rhine begin ?
Where does the Rhine empty ?
What is the largest city the Rhine runs through ?
What river is larger than the Rhine ?
How long is the Rhine ?
Where is the Rhine ?
What country does the Rhine empty ?
How long is the Rhine ?
Where does the name Rhine derive from ?
What is the French name for the Rhine ?
What is the Proto-Germanic adaptation of the name of the Rhine ?
What century did the name of the Rhine come from ?
What does the name The Rhine come from ?
What is the Rhine called in French ?
What is the Rhine called in Dutch ?
What is the Proto-Germanic adoption of the Gaulish name of the Rhine ?
How was the Dutch name for the Rhine originally spelled ?
What is the conventional method to measure the Rhine ?
When was the scale to measure the Rhine introduced ?
Where does the Rhine river 's measurement begin ?
Where does the Rhine river 's measurement end ?
What has shortened the Rhine river ?
What is the conventional measurement of the Rhine ?
When was the measurement of the Rhine introduced ?
Where does the Rhine begin ?
Why has the Rhine been shortened ?
Where does the Rhine end ?
Near Chur , which direction does the Rhine turn ?
How long is the section of the Rhine near Chur ?
What is the alpine valley that the Rhine flows through ?
What is the natural dam that the Rhine flows through ?
What is the other country the Rhine separates Switzerland to ?
Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the north ?
How long is the section that turns north ?
What is the height of the section that turns north ?
What is the glacial alpine valley known as ?
The Rhine forms the border between Austria and what other country ?
The Rhine forms an inland delta into which lake ?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the west by ?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the east by ?
In local Alemannic dialect , what is the the singular form of the names of the islands formed by the Rhine ?
What is the animal that the Rhine 's islands are named after ?
The inland delta at the mouth of the Rhine is with what Lake ?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the East ?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the west ?
What did the Rhine branch off to form in Austria ?
What is the Almannic dialect to describe the islands outside in Austria ?
Where is the upper canal regulation of the Rhine ?
What is the lower canal regulation of the Rhine ?
Besides constant flooding , why else was there regulation of the Rhine ?
After the Dornbirner Ach was diverted , where does the Rhine flow now ?
What is expected with the continuous input of sediment into the Dornbirner Ach ?
Where was the Rhine regulated with a lower canal ?
Why was the Rhine regulated ?
Where was the Rhine regulated with an upper canal ?
What was diverted and now flows parallel to the Rhine ?
What will cause the lake near the Rhine to silt up ?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance ?
What does Untersee mean ?
What lake connects the Rhine to Lake Constance ?
Which border does the Rhine flow from the south ?
What does Obersee mean ?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance ?
Besides Germany and Switzerland , where else is Lake Constance ?
What mountainous region is Lake Constance by ?
Where is the border of Swiss and Austria ?
Lake Constance separates the German state Bavaria from what other one ?
Why does the Rhine water fall into depths at the Rheinbrech ?
What Lake in a German island Mainau receives a fraction of the Rhine 's flow ?
Where does the cold and warm water meet the warm water ?
How much of the lake connecting with the Rhine can you see from the German islands ?
What is the Island off of the German shore of the Rhine that this warm and cold water meet ?
Where does the cold water mix with Lake Constance ?
What island does the cold water flow of the Rhine and Lake Constance flow to ?
A small fraction of the cold water flow from Lake Constance goes to what other lake ?
What does the word Rheinrinne translate to ?
What does the flow of the Rhine being visible depend on ?
After the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance , what direction does it flow ?
What is the major tributary of the Rhine ?
How much water does the Aare give to the Rhine ?
Where is the highest point of the Rhine basin ?
Where is the so-called Rhine Knee ?
When the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance which way does it flow ?
What is the major tributary for the Rhine ?
The Rhine gets how much water from the Aare ?
What is the highest point of the Rhine basin called ?
There 's a rough border between Switzerland and what other country formed by the Rhine ?
What is the first major city in the stream of the Rhine ?
What is the bend of Rhine in Basel called ?
What is the boundary between the High and Upper Rhine ?
How long is the Upper Rhine Plain ?
How wide is the Upper Rhine Plain ?
What is the first major city in the course of the Rhine ?
What is the first major bend in the Rhine called ?
The bend on the Rhine goes from the West to what direction ?
What ends at this bend in the Rhine ?
What is the legal boundary behind the High and Upper Rind ?
Which century was there a program to straighten the Rhine ?
What happened to the rate of flow in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program ?
What happened to the ground water in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program ?
Which canal was dug in France to carry Rhine 's water ?
What is the Bassin de compensation de Plobsheim in Alsace ?
What region of the Rhine was changed by the Rhine Straightening program ?
When did the Rhine Straightening program begin ?
What happened with the rate of flow in the Rhine with the straightening program ?
What happened with the ground water level with the Rhine straightening program ?
What carries a significant amount of the Rhine flow through France ?
Where does the Rhine encounter it 's tributary the Neckar ?
What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Rhine ?
What is the longest river in Germany ?
What is a main tributary to the Rhine that goes through Northeastern France and part of Belgium ?
What is the average width of the Rhine ?
The Rhine is the longest river in what country ?
Which country does the Rhine encounter it 's main tributaries ?
Which of the tributaries in Germany contributes most ?
What country does the Moselle take the Rhine to ?
How much does the Rhine discharge at the Dutch border ?
What flows between the Bingen and Bonn ?
What gorge is between the Bingen and Bonn ?
How was the Rhine Gorge formed ?
What is the area called near the Rhine Gorge with castles from the middle ages ?
What flows between Bingen and Bonn ?
Where does the Middle Rhine flow between Bingen and Bonn ?
What is the Rhine Gorge known for ?
What is the section of the Rhine Gorge recognized by UNESCO called ?
What contributed to water pollution in the Rhine ?
What is Europe 's largest inland port ?
What rive joins the Rhine in Duisburg ?
What does the Ruhr provide to it 's community ?
Where are a bulk of factories concentrated along the Rhine ?
What did industry do to the Rhine until the 1980s ?
Which section of the Rhine is most factories found ?
What country has the most factories that pollute the Rhine ?
What city has the largest inland port in Europe ?
Which river joins the Rhine in Duisburg ?
Besides viniculture , what 's a dominant economic sector of the Middle Rhine ?
There 's a UNESCO World Heritage site in the Rhine Gorge between the Koblenz and what ?
What is the famous rock near Sanke Goarshausen ?
What is considered the epitome of the Rhine romanticism ?
Besides viniculture , what is the other dominate economic sector in the middle rhine ?
What is the Rhine Gorge listed as ?
The Rhine Gorge is between Koblenz and what other city ?
What is the famous rock called that the Rhine flows around ?
Where is the famous rock the Rhine flows around ?
What city has the biggest port in Germany ?
What is the Canal in Wesel ?
What does the Wessel-Datteln canal run parallel to ?
What is the largest suspension bridge in Germany ?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany between Emmrich and Cleves ?
What part of the Rhine flows through North Rhine-Westphalia ?
What is the region called that is the largest conurbation of the Rhine ?
What is the largest port in Europe called ?
What is the name of the longest bridge in Germany ?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany ?
What does the water flow of the Rhine merge with after flowing through Merwede ?
What is the Dutch name for the Rhine ?
How much of the water flow does the Waal get from the Rhine ?
Which direction does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany ?
Where does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany ?
What does the Rhine merge with outside of Germany ?
What 's the name of where the Rhine branches off near Dordrecht ?
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through the Maas , where doe the other one third flow through ?
The Rhine redistributes into the Ijssel and what other body ?
What does the Nederrikn 's name change into ?
Where does the Lek join ?
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through Waal , where does the other third flow through ?
Other than the Ijssel , where does the water from the Pannerdens Kanaal redsitrubute ?
How much of the Rhine flow does Ijssel carry ?
What does the Nederrijn change it 's name to ?
Where does the Nederrijn change it 's name ?
What is the name for the smaller streams along the region northern Germany ?
The smaller streams are used for what ?
What is the name of the old north branch of the Rhine ?
What is the translation of the old north branch of rhe Rhine ?
What part of the Rhine flows west at Katwijk ?
What is the name of the Delta in the Netherlands ?
Where does the Delta in the Netherlands begin ?
What is the nickname for the Delta in the Netherlands ?
At Millingen aan de Rijn where the Rhine splits , what does it change it 's name to ?
How many main flows are branched off from the Nederrijn ?
What is the largest main branch of the Rhine ?
What is the translation of Oude Maas ?
What is the English translation of Het Scheur ?
What flood impacted the Meuse ?
What year did the flood that impacted the Meuse take place ?
Where did the Meuse flow before the flood ?
When did the Meuse and Waal merge ?
What did the Merwede-Oude Maas form with Waal and Lek ?
What do closed rivers serve as after they close ?
What changed the Rhine 's Delta ?
What is the term for closing off rivers that are no longer connected ?
When was the construction that changed the Rhine 's Delta ?
What type of Delta is the Rhine-Meuse ?
Besides rivers , what shapes the sedimentation of the rivers ?
What does a high tide risk near lands ?
Between Brakel and what other city can the most landward tidal influence be detected ?
The present Mediterranean Sea descends from what sea ?
What period did plates reverse directions to compress the Tethys floor ?
Microplates squeezing and rotating created the features of what ?
What period opened the Tethys Ocean ?
What pushed up the Pyrenees ?
What rift system developed in the Alpine orogeny ?
What elements from the rift system in the Alpine orogeny in Southwest Germany ?
What time did a river system develop in the Upper Rhine Graben ?
The Rhine and what other river drained the northern flanks of the alps ?
How did the Rhine extend watershed southward ?
What period did the Rhine capture streams ?
Where are the streams the Rhine captured ?
What period was 2.5 million years ago ?
How many major ice ages have occurred ?
How far did the sea level drop in the ice ages ?
In early Pleistocene , what direction did the Rhine flow ?
During glacial times , where was the mouth of the Rhine located ?
When did the last glacial start ?
When did the last glacial end ?
Which direction did the Rhine flow during the last cold phase ?
How much lower was the North Sea in the last cold phase than it is today ?
Besides the North Sea and the Irish Channel , what else was lowered in the last cold phase ?
What was the source of the Rhine in the last Ice Age ?
What stretched across middle Europe in the last ice age ?
When was the Last Glacial Maximum ?
What covered Scandinavia , the Baltics , Scotland , and the Alps in the last Ice Age ?
What is the term for wind-blown dust in a tundra ?
When did Europe slowly begin to warm up from the last Ice Age ?
What did frozen subsoil and expanded alpine glaciers begin to do ?
Where did the discharge from glaciers go in Europe in the last Ice Age ?
When did rapid warming begin and help vegetation ?
When was Europe fully forested and recovered from the last Ice Age ?
When did tides and currents similar to our current system begin ?
Why did natural sedimentation by the Rhine compensate the transgression bby the sea ?
How long has the Rhine coastline been in the same location ?
Why is the current sea level rising ?
How quickly is the sea level rising ?
When was the Holocene ?
When did the formation of the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta begin ?
Where did the Rhine occupy during the Holocene ?
What country did the Rhine continue to rise during the holocene ?
When have humans started impacting the delta ?
What has increased sediment and delta growth also produced in the Rhine ?
What increased in the Rhine because of the land clearance in the upland areas ?
When did embankment of the major Rhine distributaries take palce ?
How many avulsions have occurred in the past 6000 yeas ?
Where do the branches Waal and Nederrijn-Lek discharge to ?
What do the Waal and the Nederrijn-Lek discharge throguh ?
Where does the Ijssel branch flow ?
What did the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon change into ?
How many branches does the Rhine branch into ?
When was the Rhine first discovered ?
The Rhine first formed a boundary between Gaul and what else ?
Since when was the Rhine part of the areal of Hallstatt culture ?
Who first wrote about the Rhine 's discovery and border ?
When did Augustus die ?
The Rhine and what other river were accepted as the Germanic frontier ?
When did the Rhine stop being the Roman boundary ?
Which direction did Romans use to drift through the Rhine ?
Where are the upper Rhine and upper Danube crossed ?
How many legions in five bases were along the Rhine by the Romans ?
Vetra and I Germanica and XX Valeria were the two legions for what ?
What was the Colonia Agrippina 's original name ?
What did the number of legions in Roman times depend on ?
What does Colonia Agrippina 's original name translate into ?
When did Germanic tribes cross the Rhine to migrate ?
What did Germanic tribes establish with help from the Rhine ?
What is the translation of Siebengebirge ?
Who is the hero who killed a dragon on the Drachenfels ?
Who threw gold into the Rhine , according to legend ?
When did the Rhine become borders with Francia ?
When was the Rhine fully within the Holy Roman Empire ?
The Rhine flowed through Swabia , Franconia and what other location in the 10th Century ?
Who sold the Upper Rhine to Burgundy ?
When was the Upper Rhine sold to Burgundy ?
What was the name of the time the Upper Rhine form a border between France and Germany ?
What was a long term goal of French foreign policy along the Rhine ?
Who established the Confederation of the Rhine ?
When was the confederation of the Rhine ?
When was the Rhine crisis ?
When was Rhineland subject to the Treaty of Versailles ?
When would the occupation of allies leave Rhineland ?
After 1935 , who would be forbidden to enter Rhineland ?
What do some believe the Treaty of Versailles assisted in ?
When did the German army reoccupy Rhineland ?
Where is the Rhine Bridge ?
What was the Rhine considered to invaders in WWII ?
When was Operation Market Garden ?
What bridge did the Germans fail to demolish ?
What was the Warsaw Pact war plan ?
What was the accepted length of the Rhine prior to 1932 ?
Who stated a change of the length of the Rhine ?
Why was the Rhine measurement changed ?
in 1932 what was the Rhine measurement changed to ?
When was the Rhine measurement corrected back to the original ?
When was the current parliament of Scotland convened ?
What act set out the Parliament 's powers as a devolved legislature ?
The legislative competence of the Parliament species what areas ?
To what body are certain powers explicitly specified as being reserved for ?
The Scottish Parliament may legislate as it pleases as long as the powers are n't already reserved by where ?
What remained an important issue in Scottish national identity for many years ?
How many hundred of years was Scotland directly governed by the parliament of Great Britain ?
Why were the initial suggestions for a devolved parliament before 1914 shelved ?
When was there a sharp rise in nationalism in Scotland ?
What did Kllbrandon 's report in 1973 recommend establishing ?
Which sea was oil discovered in ?
What campaigh did the Scottish National Party ( SNP ) run ?
When did Prime Minister Wilson commit to some form of devolved legislature ?
What did the SNP publicly opine about the oil revenues ?
When was the final legislative proposals for a Scottish Assembly passed ?
Where was an elected assembly to be set up , under the terms of the Scotland Act of 1978 ?
How many of the Scottish electorate would need to for it on the referendum ?
What percentage of the vote for a Scottish Assembly in favor of it ?
How did trying to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly go in 1979 ?
What percentage of Scotland 's voting population failed to actually vote ?
In the range between 1980 and 1990 , what did demand for grow ?
Whose control of the UK 's government helped fuel a desire for a Scottish Parliament ?
When was the Scottish Constitutional Convention held ?
What provided much of the basis for the structure of the Parliament in 1995 ?
Where has the official home of the Scottish Parliament been since 2004 ?
Who designed the Scottish Parliament building ?
What nationality is the architect Enric Miralles ?
What shape are some of the buildings in the Parliament complex ?
Who opened the new Parliament building on October 9 , 2004 ?
What was the building vacated twice to allow for ?
Where was Parliament 's temporary home whilst the permanent building was being built ?
Where were interviews held while the parliament was in its temporary building ?
In May 2002 , where would you go to address the Parliament ?
Where was Parliament temporarily relocated to in May of 2000 ?
Who did the Parliament rent additional buildings from ?
What former administrative building was used for the MSP 's offices ?
What happened to the building on George IV Bridge when the Parliament was done with it ?
What do the former Midlothian County Buildings face ?
Which hall was used as Parliament 's principle committee room ?
Who is elected to serve as the Presiding Officer at the beginning of each parliamentary session ?
Who is currently speaker of the Scottish Parliament ?
What type of ballot is used to elect the Presiding Officer and deputies of the Parliament ?
How many MSPs are there ?
Who is responsible for operating the electronic voting equipment and chamber clocks ?
Who is responsible for ensuring the Parliament works smoothly ?
Who sets the work agenda and allocates time in the chamber ?
How many seats must a political party have to be represented on the Parliamentary Bureau ?
Who represents the Scottish Parliament at home and abroad in an official capacity ?
What is the seating arrangement of the debating chamber ?
Why is the seating of the debating chamber arranged as it is ?
How many seats are in the debating chamber ?
How many members in the seats of the Scottish Parliament are members of the Scottish Government ?
What can the non-elected members from the Scottish Government not do ?
Where does the gold in the parliamentary mace come from ?
What is the parliamentary mace made of ?
Who presented the mac to the Scottish Parliament when it was initially opened ?
What words are inscribed on the mace of parliament ?
What is the mace displayed in ?
Which month is the first in the year Parliament takes a two week vacation ?
Where do plenary meetings take place ?
Who are debates and meetings open to ?
How much does it cost to gain entry to a parliament meeting ?
What contains a nearly verbatim of parliamentary debates ?
What day of the week does the Time for Reflection take place ?
How long might a speaker address the members during the Time of Reflection ?
Who decides who gets to address the members of Parliament to share their thoughts on issues of faith ?
Because speakers are drawn from across Scotland , what do the represent the balance of ?
What can faith groups ask the Presiding Officer to do for them ?
Who decides who gets to speak in the chamber debates ?
What is also decided by the Presiding Officer ?
What does the Presiding Officer try to achieve a balance of between speakers ?
What members typically open debates ?
What language other than English has the Scottish Parliament had meetings in ?
What time do the MSPs normally decide on the motions and amendments from that day ?
What is heralded by the sounding of the division bell ?
What do MSPs who are not in the chamber when the division bell rings return to do ?
How do members vote when there is a division ?
How long does it take to know the outcome of a division ?
What can often be predicted beforehand ?
Who normally instructs members how to vote ?
Who has the task of ensuring party members vote according to the party line ?
What type of issues are members typically allowed to vote as they please ?
What happens if a member does n't vote the party line ?
When is the Members Debate held ?
Why are debates on proposed motions by an MSP conducted ?
How long does the Members Debate last ?
Who contributes to Members Business in addition to the proposer ?
What does the minister who was the catalyst of the Members Business do by speaking after everyone else ?
Where is much of the work of the Scottish Parliament done ?
What are committees in the Scottish Parliament compared to other systems ?
What is one avenue being compensated for by having committees serve such a large role ?
Taking evidence from witnesses is one of committees ' what ?
Where might committees meet outside of Parliament ?
Who are committees comprised of ?
What do the membership of the committees reflect ?
Different committees have what set out in different ways ?
What type of committee is set down under the SP 's standing orders ?
What session is the Scottish Parliament in ?
When are subject committees established ?
How many ministries of the Scottish government does a committee typically correspond to ?
Economy , Energy and Tourism is one of the what ?
What is the Scottish Parliament currently in the fourth of ?
What is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted by party outsiders ?
What topic do private bills typically have ?
Who decides how land or property is allowed to be used ?
What kind of committee considered legislation on the development of the Edinburgh Tram Network ?
What act sets forth the functions of the Scottish Parliament ?
Who gave her royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1998 ?
What does the Scotland Act of 2012 extend ?
What body constitutes the supreme legislature of Scotland ?
Who has the role of holding the Scottish Government to account ?
Where are reserved matters stated in the Scotland Act ?
If a matter is not specifically reserved , who is it devolved to ?
Why do police and fire services fall under the purview of the Scottish Parliament ?
How much can the SP alter income tax in Scotland ?
Setting speed limits was one of the further devolutions which was conferred by what act ?
What is the name of matters outside the legislative ability of the Scottish Parliament ?
Issues dealt with at Westminster are not ones who is able to deal with ?
Where are issues like abortion and drug policy legislated on ?
Most aspects of transport safety is a subject dealt with by whom ?
What may be presented to Parliament in various ways ?
Who may introduce new laws or amendments to laws already on the books as a bill ?
An MSP may introduce a bill as what ?
Who may also submit private bills to Parliament ?
How do bills pass through Parliament ?
What is stage 1 in the life of a bill ?
What are presented to parliament in addition to the bill itself ?
What do statements from the PO and member in charge of the bill also indicate ?
Where are bills typically gestated in Stage 1 ?
If Parliament agrees in a vote to the general principle of a bill , what does it then proceed to ?
What is the final stage of a bill in the Scottish Parliament ?
How many parts does the consideration of a bill in Stage 3 have ?
What vote on a bill takes place in Stage 3 ?
What type of amendments might members opposed to a bill put on the table ?
When do members proceed to vote on whether they agree to the principles of the final bill ?
Who does the Presiding Officer submit the final bill to ?
Why is the final bill passed to the Monarch ?
What is the minimum amount of time before a bill can go into law ?
Who is a bill referred to for a ruling on whether it 's within the powers of the Parliament ?
What does the template for bills passed by the Scottish Parliament include ?
What party forms the Scottish Parliament ?
Who is eligible to toss their name in the hat to be First Minister ?
Who is elected at the beginning of each term ?
Other than Scotland 's Chief Law Officer , from whence are most ministers drawn from amongst ?
Who makes formal appointment or dismissal decisions ?
What day of the week are general elections held ?
What month , every four years , are the ordinary general elections held on ?
Who may change the date by up to a month , on the proposal of the PO ?
If an extraordinary election is held within less than six months before the date of an ordinary election , what does it do to the ordinary election ?
How many days does the Parliament have to nominate a First Minister after a General Election ?
What enables the Scottish Parliament to scrutinize the government ?
Who can question statements the First Minister or members of the cabinet make ?
What does the First Minister deliver at the beginning of each parliamentary year ?
What do the leaders of the opposition parties and other MSPs question the First Minister about ?
What is set aside for question periods in the debating chamber ?
On what day does a General Question Time take place ?
Who may members direct questions towards during General Question Time ?
What may members question the First Minister about directly during First Minister 's Question Time ?
How many general questions are available to opposition leaders ?
What is the number of Constituency MSPs ?
When was there a reduction in the number of Scottish MPs ?
How many members can voters choose to represent the constituency ?
Why do the island archipelagos comprise a smaller number of electors ?
What is the current number of electors currently in a Scottish Parliament constituency ?
How are the total numbers of seats allocated to parties ?
What method is used for tallying votes in the second vote of the ballot ?
The party awarded a seat is the one with the highest what ?
What set is a seat added to after being allocated ?
How is the process of allocating seats repeated until all available seats have been determined ?
What does being an MSP share with the House of Commons ?
When was the British Nationality Act passed ?
How old most a person be to apply to be an MSP ?
Members of which organizations are disqualified from sitting in the SP as elected MSPs ?
What act sets the term for judging the boundaries of sanity to which individuals wishing to sit on the SP must adhere ?
When the election produced an SNP majority government , what was it the first occurrence of ?
Who did the SNP obtain 16 seats from ?
By how much did Labour lead Lain Gray retain East Lothian ?
How many seats did the SNP take from the Liberal Democrats ?
What did the result of the SNP majority allow a referendum be held on ?
The loss of Edinburgh Pentlands really disappointed whom the most ?
What was the seat of former party leader David McLetchie ?
What net loss did the Conservatives suffer ?
Who announced she would step down as leader of the Conservatives ?
Who congratulated the SNP while vowing to campaign against their referendum ?
What consequence of establishing the Scottish Parliament applies to Scottish MPs sitting in the UK House of Commons ?
What are MPs unable to vote upon ?
What phenomenon has led to criticism ?
What party had a victory in the 2015 UK election ?
MPs representing English constituencies can only veto laws affecting which country ?
What is an Islamic revival movement ?
What aspects of life does Islamism seek to integrate itself into ?
What goal does Islamism have when it comes to society and government ?
What have the two different Islamist movements been described as oscillating between ?
One strategy of Islamization is to seize power by what methods ?
What process do moderate and reformist Islamists work within the boundaries of ?
Where does Hamas originate ?
What is the goal of Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas ?
What do radical Islamist organizations reject entirely ?
On what basis do the radical Islamist organizations conduct their attacks ?
What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and reformist Islamism ?
What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 20th century ?
What did the Salafi movement put emphasis on ?
What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the Arab Spring ?
Why do Islamists need democratic elections ?
What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it a somewhat controversial concept ?
What do supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect ?
The idea that Islam can be apolitical is n't able to be embraced by whom ?
What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the West to support ?
What do progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate ?
What term do Islamists think should be applied to them ?
What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is a creation of ?
What was apolitical Islam ?
When was the heyday of secular Arab nationalism ?
What , rather than Islamism , requires explanation ?
What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the West later become to be seen as ?
When did Western governments support fledgling Islamists ?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige ?
Who did the US provide aid to , to fight against the Soviet Union ?
Western governments considered Islamists to be the lesser of two evils when compared to whom ?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige ?
Who is the President of Egypt ?
What relationship with Israel is Sadat for ?
What was Sadat seeking by releasing Islamists from prison ?
When did the so called gentlemen 's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists break down ?
How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to bring Egypt into modern times and civilization ?
What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism promote ?
What does Salafism in its harshest form encourage its followers to view the religion of others with ?
Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 20th century ?
Conservative Islam classifies Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what ?
What interpretation of Islam is , for many of the adherents , the " gold standard " of their religion ?
What type of movement is the Muslim Brotherhood ?
The Muslim Brotherhood 's competence compares well against what type of local governments ?
What type of assistance to out of town students is the Muslim Brotherhood known for ?
What are incompetent government 's commitment to social justice limited to ?
Why has the Muslim Brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies ?
What was Iqbal studying in England and Germany ?
What organization did Iqbal join in London ?
Who was Iqbal a critic of ?
What year did Iqbal return to Lahore ?
What book was Iqbal 's seven English lectures published as ?
What did Iqbal fear would weaken the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society ?
Iqbal worried that India 's mostly Hindu population would do what to Muslim heritage and culture ?
When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity , what did he encourage ending ?
When was Iqbal elected president of the Muslim League ?
What did Iqbal 's Allahabad address inspire ?
Who was an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India ?
Maududi was trained as a lawyer , but chose what professional for himself instead ?
When did Maududi found the Jamaat-e-Islami party ?
Where did Maududi exert the most impact ?
Where did Maududi 's books place Islam ?
Who was an important early figure in the Islamic revival in India ?
Though trained as a lawyer , what profession did Maududi pursue instead ?
Where did Maududi exert the most impact ?
Where did Maududi 's books place Islam ?
What did Maududi believe Muslim society could not be Islamic in the absence of ?
Maududi believed that Islam needed what to be established ?
What is the English translation of tawhid ?
What type of revolution did Maududi advocate ?
By what method did Maududi want to change the hearts and minds of individuals ?
When was the Muslim Brotherhood founded ?
Where was the Muslim Brotherhood founded ?
Who founded the Muslim Brotherhood ?
The motto of the Muslim Brotherhood specifies what as being their constitution ?
What influence did Al Banna wish to eliminate from the Muslim world ?
Some elements of the Brotherhood directed what action against the government ?
When was Al-Banna assassinated ?
Who was Al-Banna 's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of ?
When was the Brotherhood first banned in Egypt ?
What Egyptian president jailed thousands of members of the Brotherhood ?
What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the Islamic world ?
What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2011-2012 ?
For many years , what was the Brotherhood described as ?
The Brotherhood was the only opposition group in Egypt able to do what during elections ?
Who was the first democratically elected president of Egypt ?
What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Six-Day War ?
The defeat of the Arab troops in the Six-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world ?
Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the defeat of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation ?
What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Six-Day War ?
What gained ground when Arab nationalism suffered ?
Mohammad Iqbal was what type of father to the State of Pakistan ?
Who was the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution ?
Where does Khomeini 's beliefs fall as compared to Mawdudi and Qutb ?
Who was it essential to Islam to imitate ?
What long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the West ?
What Republic has maintained its control of Iran ?
Iran has assisted what type of groups in Iraq ?
What type of sanctions has the US directed at Iran ?
When did the Iranian government enjoy something of a resurgence ?
Who stated he wanted Israel to vanish ?
Who deployed its army into Afghanistan in 1979 ?
What was the Soviet Union trying to suppress with its army ?
What did the conflict galvanize Muslims around the world to do ?
How effective was the military use of the " Afghan Arabs " ?
How many Muslims came from around the world to fight in Afghanistan ?
What did the Gulf War inadvertently do in the early 1990s ?
Whose occupation of Kuwait did the US military personal seek to put an end to ?
Up until 1990 , Saudi Arabia played an important role in restraining what groups ?
What monarchy did western troops protect ?
Whose puppet did Islamists accuse the Saudi regime of being ?
Who did the attacks resonate most with ?
What did Saudi Arabia try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature ?
Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam 's defeat ?
Where did a bloody civil war break out ?
Who masterminded many terror attacks ?
Whose ideas became increasingly radical during his imprisonment ?
When was Qutb executed ?
What organization was led by Hasan al-Hudaybi ?
What movements pursued a more radical direction ?
When had the Brotherhood renounced violence as a means of achieving its goals ?
Who took up the path of violence ?
When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad assassinate Anwar Sadat ?
Which leaders did the Islamic extremists attack ?
What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked guilty of ?
Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the radical ideas of the extremists ?
What did al-Gama ' a al-Islamiyya use to get its way ?
Over 100 Egyptian police were victims of what group 's campaign of terror ?
When did Jamaa Islamiya renounce violence ?
How did the Islamic Group 's campaign to overthrow the government turn out ?
Who has the Islamic Liberation Party attempted to assassinate ?
Until 1987 , what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine take towards Israel ?
What organization is devoted to Jihad against Israel ?
What did the Hamas charter uncompromisingly encourage ?
The Brotherhood 's members are against consuming what beverage ?
Where does HAMAS want to establish an Islamic state ?
What organization has continued to be a major disruptive force in Palestine ?
How many people did Hamas kill between 2000 to 2007 ?
What did Hamas win in the January 2006 legislative election ?
When did Hamas drive the PLO out of Gaza ?
What have Muslims praised Hamas for doing ?
What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many years ?
Who was the leader of the Islamist regime in Sudan ?
What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry invite members of to serve in his government ?
How did Turabi build a strong economic base ?
Where did Turabi place students sympathetic to his views ?
When was al-Nimeiry overthrown ?
How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1989 ?
Though Turabi proclaimed his support for the democratic process , he strictly applied what after coming into power ?
Who did the NIF regime harbor prior to 9/11 ?
What did the NIF try to unify Islamist opposition against ?
One of FIS ' agenda items was to force women to start doing what ?
When was the FIS founded ?
Where was the FIS formed ?
What does the acronym FIS stand for ?
What were the national elections in 1991 canceled by ?
Unsurprisingly , the mujahideen 's victory against the Soviets in the 1980s failed to produce what ?
What type of civil war was fought between political and tribal warlords ?
When did the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan collapse ?
What did the civil war leave the state of Afghanistan 's economy in ?
How much of Afghanistan did the Taliban take over ?
Thousands of madrasahs spawned what organization ?
Where did support from governmental and religious groups come from ?
The Taliban was so different from other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what ?
What did the Taliban want to subject the entire country to ?
Who influenced the Taliban 's ideology ?
When was the regime in Pakistan overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq ?
What had Bhutto planned on banning within six months , before he was overthrown ?
What was Zia-ul-Haq 's official state ideology ?
What was Zia-ul-Haq accused of using Islamization to legitimize ?
When was Zia-ul-Haq killed ?
What type of group is The Islamic State ?
Who leads The Islamic State ?
How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of March 2015 ?
What does the Islamic State lack from the international community ?
What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2014 ?
When did ISIL pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda ?
When did Western forces invade Iraq ?
Why did al-Qaeda tell ISIL to take a hike ?
When did the Syrian Civil War begin ?
What has the United Nations designed ISIL ?
What 's the party 's take on Muslim history ?
When did the four rightly guided Caliphs die ?
When was the Ottoman Caliphate abolished ?
The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have ended what system ?
What are colonial powers blamed for ?
What type of jihad does HT avoid engaging in ?
How does HT strive to amass power ?
Who specifically does HT target to change the opinion of ?
Where did HT fail to pull off a bloodless coup in 1974 ?
What have many HT members graduated to joining ?
How many Muslims are in Greater London ?
What type of outlook do some of the Muslims in London have ?
When did the Channel 4 documentary Undercover Mosque air ?
The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for London ?
What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was arrested ?
How long as the U.S. government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism ?
What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts against Islamism ?
Who called for an agency to be created to be solely focused at undermining the Islamism ideology ?
What position in the government does Robert Gates hold ?
What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Cold War ?
The word imperialism has it 's origins in which ancient language ?
By what means is imperialism usually administered ?
The term imperialism has been applied to western countries , and which eastern county ?
Imperialism is responsible for the rapid spread of what ?
Imperialism extends a country 's power and what ?
colonial rule would be considered what type of imperialism ?
imperialism often divides countries by using which technique ?
Informal imperialism is still dominant ; however , less what ?
A forced trade agreement between two countries would be an example of what ?
colonial rule , or physical occupation of a territory is an example of what kind of imperialism ?
Some have generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what ?
What subtle tool can be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area ?
Which is more costly , formal , or informal imperialism ?
The amount of land a country controls is its greatest what ?
Western Imperialism divided the globe according to which theory ?
Who suggested that imperialism was the " highest " form of capitalism ?
One country 's authority over a number of others would constitute the original country as what ?
Most imperialism was carried out using which method of transport ?
Imperialism is confused with what other term ?
What does colonialism lack that imperialism has ?
Colonialism as a policy is caused by financial and what other reasons ?
Who besides the Russians are often left out of the colonialism debat ?
Imperialism and colonialism both assert a states dominance over what ?
Political advantage is an attribute of which state policies ?
Colonialism often means a country doing what ?
How would one create an empire by means of Imperialism ?
What is colonialism 's core meaning ?
what do conquering people pass down to native populations ?
what is the most controversial aspect of imperialism ?
Friedrich Ratzel thought what was needed for a state to survive ?
J . A. Hobson wanted which races to develop the world ?
Which theory justifies imperialism in part ?
In Latin America what is the most revered skin color ?
Where was Friedrich Ratzel born ?
Where was Halford Mackinder born ?
Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of geographers ?
Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was what for the country ?
How would the geographical societies in Europe support certain travelers ?
Which theory suggested people in the tropics were uncivilized ?
According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was necessary for humans to become fully human ?
Which book by Edward Said portrayed the east as being the " others ? "
According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a tropical climate produce ?
By justification certain racial and geographical theories , Europe thought of itself as what ?
What law justified British imperialism ?
When did Great Britain colonize Australia ?
Imperialism is most often associated with which sovereignty ?
What were the native inhabitants of Australia called ?
Terra Nullius is a Latin expression meaning what in English ?
Orientalism refers to how the West developed a what of the East ?
Early Western texts referencing the East describe the people as being what ?
The West saw the East as what ?
What was used by the West to justify control over eastern territories ?
The West saw themselves as what compared to the east ?
bassett focuses on what to illustrate his idea ?
What provided an incentive to western empires to colonize Africa ?
What were blank spaces used for on nineteenth-century maps ?
What did Basset analyze before coming to his conclusions ?
Who besides the british colonized Africa ?
During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires thrive ?
Who used imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire ?
How many Muslim empires have used imperialism ?
Which is older the British Empire or the Ethiopian Empire ?
The Asante and Lunda Empires were in which region ?
When imperialism impacts social norms of a state , what is it called ?
What is Cultural Imperialism often referred to as ?
Which American show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war ?
Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway local elites ?
How do regimes fight against cultural imperialism ?
When did the age of Imperialism begin ?
What were European countries doing during the 1700 's ?
How many years have imperialistic practices existed ?
When did the age of imperialism end ?
What was the name of the imperialistic policy in China ?
When was John Gallagher born ?
When did Ronald Robinson die ?
What profession were Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher ?
What grew on a global scale as a result of imperialism ?
Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 1
European imperialism was focused on what ?
When did the colonization of India occur ?
What did European empires rely on to supply them with resources ?
Who did Britain exploit in India ?
What advancements besides military technology did Europe achieve ?
What did European chemists make that could be used in warfare ?
what was invented in 1880 that revolutionized warfare ?
What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879 ?
Which region invented the machine gun ?
Theories on imperialism use which country as a model ?
When did the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition ?
What was the idealized value of imperialism ?
According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries have an imperialistic policy ?
some debate that there is a correlation between capitalism , imperialism , and what ?
When was the military-political complex reflected upon within the scope of understanding imperialism ?
When were Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period ?
Hobson argued that imperialism was an international what ?
How did Hobson argue to rid the world of imperialism ?
What served as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions ?
What was thought to decide a person 's behavior ?
Humans in tropical environments were considered what ?
Europe first colonized the Americas , then Asia , but what continent was third ?
What were the two forms of environmental determinism ?
Who thought the world could be split into climatic zones ?
Which regions have temperate climates ?
What did the the Europeans think the peoples in the tropics were in need of ?
What was a similar view about the Asian continent called ?
Who did the geographic scholars work for ?
When is the earliest Britain had an imperialist policy ?
When was the British East India Company established ?
Who chartered the British East India Company ?
What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1767 ?
Which country had trading posts in India before Britain ?
When did France take control of Algeria ?
When did France begin in earnest to rebuild its global empire ?
What religion did the French spread along with their imperialism ?
Where did France focus its efforts to rebuild its empire ?
When did French Republicans back building the French empire ?
Jules Ferry thought that the " higher races " have a duty to what ?
What did France offer that was rare by imperial standards ?
How did france differ from Britain in managing its colonies ?
The French thought bringing what would uplift other regions ?
Where did the French send a large number of settlers ?
Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free French run operations during World War 2 ?
After 1945 , what challenged the French empire ?
Where did France lose a war in the 1950 's ?
Where did France win a war in the 1950 's
By when did most of France 's Colonies gain independence ?
Where were the Germanic tribes originally located ?
What was the only region in Europe not conquered by the Germanic tribes ?
When did the Germanic tribes claim territory in north and west Europe ?
By when did the Germanic tribes conquer the Celtic peoples ?
Germany referred to which area more so than an actual country ?
Germany does n't have an imperialistic past until when ?
When was Otto von Bismarck born ?
When was the the second German empire founded ?
Who caused the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire ?
What was Germany 's central interest ?
Besides Africa , where did Germany have imperial interests ?
Colonies were a sign of what amongst European countries ?
When did Germany found their first settlement ?
What was the name of the first German settlement ?
Who influenced Bismark besides his neighbors ?
What happened as a result of the Russo-Japanese War ?
When was the first Sino-Japanese War ?
Which country did Japan force into an alliance ?
Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1931 ?
Who along with Russia supported post WW-II communist movements ?
When was the Russian Policy " Indigenization " defunded ?
Who asserted Russia 's right to " self-determination ? "
After WW-II where did Russia apply its old Tsarist regimes ?
Who had established the Russian empire to its former glory prior to 1921 ?
Trotsky thought what was needed for a true Russian revolution .
Who wrote that imperialism is the highest stage of capitalism ?
Who argued that the USSR had itself become an imperialist power ?
Who was the leader of Russia in the 1960 's ?
What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin 's Death ?
What was the first British empire based on ?
When did Great Britain lose its colonies in North America ?
What policy gave Britain dominance in world trade ?
When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies gain their independance .
When was the defeat of Napoleonic France ?
By the late 19th century , which country had the largest empire ever to exist in the world ?
What kinds of sciences were Social Darwinism and theories of race ?
Rudyard Kipling was an influential spokesman for what ?
In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the British Empire in the late 19th century ?
How did the United States plan to subdue imperialistic tendencies ?
What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt ’ s policy of imperialism ?
What caused the US public to condemn the occupation of the philippines ?
Which country besides the Cuba did the United states try to annex in 1898 ?
What did Smedley Butler call US foreign Policy ?
Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1914 ?
When was Isiah Bowman appointed to President Wilson 's Inquiry ?
Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself had the idea for the inquiry ?
What was the premise of Woodrow Wilson 's inquiry ?
What was Isiah Bowman nick name , as known by the public .
Some people describe what between individuals or groups as imperialism or colonialism ?
the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of colonialism ?
How many Africans were brought into the United States during the slave trade ?
Who does Edward Said say is being attacked by US imperialism ?
When did the Ottoman Empire fall ?
Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most powerful .
How many provinces did the Ottoman empire contain in the 17th century ?
The Ottoman empire controlled territory on three continents , Africa , Asia and which other ?
When was the Ottoman empire at its height ?
What was the capital of the Ottoman empire ?
Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WW I ?
What ended Turkish imperial Ambitions ?
Which country today is a remnant of the Ottoman empire ?
What does UMC stand for ?
What is the United Methodist Church ?
When was the UMC founded ?
Who founded the UMC ?
What is the church 's theological orientation ?
What is the largest denomination within the wider Methodist movement ?
Approximately how many adherents does the United Methodist Church have across the world ?
In the United States the UMC ranks as the largest what ?
What percentage of the U.S. population self-identify with UMC ?
When did the movement that would become The United Methodist Church begin ?
Where did the movement that would become The United Methodist Church begin ?
Why was the student group called " the Methodists ? "
In what year did John and Charles Wesley come to America to teach the gospel ?
In 1735 , where did John and Charles Wesley teach the gospel in America ?
In 1735 , who did John and Charles Wesley teach the gospel to in America ?
What did " The Holy Club 's " teachings emphasize ?
What caused the separation of the Methodists in the American colonies ?
When did Wesley appoint Thomas Coke as bishop ?
Who did Wesley appoint as bishop in 1784 ?
Where was the Baltimore Christmas Conference of 1784 held ?
What is considered the Mother Church of American Methodism ?
What church is located at the corner of 4th and New Streets in Philadelphia ?
What is the oldest Methodist church in continuous use in the United States ?
When was the congregation at St. George 's founded ?
Where did the congregation at St. George 's initially meet in 1767 ?
When was the Methodist Episcopal Church founded ?
Who became the first African Americans ordained by the Methodist Church ?
Richard Allen and Absalom Jones were licensed by what church ?
Richard Allen and Absalom Jones were licensed by St. George 's Church in what year ?
When did the Methodist Protestant Church split from the Methodist Episcopal Church ?
Why did the Methodist Protestant Church split from the Methodist Episcopal Church ?
When did the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church split into two conferences ?
Why did the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church split into two conferences ?
When was the United Methodist Church created ?
Where did two leaders join hands and " give birth " to a new denomination ?
Who was one man who joined hands and said " Lord of the Church , we are united in Thee ... ? "
The UMC understands itself to be part of what church ?
What book recognizes the importance of the Chalcedonian Creed ?
What is the concept of the visible and invisible Church ?
Why was Wesley compelled to break with standard practice and ordain two of his lay preachers as presbyters ?
Who assisted Wesley with ordaining Whatcoat and Vasey as presbyters ?
Who were the two lay preachers that Wesley ordained as presbyters ?
When was the UMC formed ?
Who were two of the founders of the United Methodist Church ?
In 1968 , who led the team which systematized denominational doctrine ?
Who is largely considered the first United Methodist theologian ?
What is the grace that " goes before us ? "
What is that power that enables us to love ?
What is Prevenient grace ?
Prevenient grace allowas those tainted by what to make a choice to accept or reject God 's salvation in Christ ?
What is the grace that we receive by faith and trust in God ?
What cancels our guilt and empowers us to resist the power of sin and to fully love God and neighbor ?
What is justifying grace also known as today ?
What is another name for being born again ?
What did John Wesley originally call the experience of conversion ?
What is Sanctifying Grace ?
What is that grace of God which sustains the believers in the journey towards Christian Perfection ?
What is Christian Perfection ?
What is a genuine love of God with heart , soul and mind ?
What has been characterized as Arminian theology with an emphasis on the work of the Holy Spirit ?
What is seeing the Holy Bible as the primary authority in the Church ?
Today , which church is generally considered one of the more moderate and tolerant denominations ?
What states that United Methodist theology is at once " catholic , evangelical and reformed ? "
When did the General Conference go on record in support of the work of the Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice ?
Is the UMC pro-life or pro-choice ?
The UMC was a founding member of what coalition ?
What are two official bodies of the UMC governing coalition ?
The church emphasizes the need to be in supportive ministry of what group ?
The church holds that they are equally bound to respect the sacredness of the life and well-being of whom ?
What is the taskforce that was organized to identify with the pro-life position ?
In what year was there an attempt to withdraw the UMC membership ?
Who is the president of TUMAS ?
Historically , which movement has the Methodist Church supported ?
When did the UMC 's General Board of Church and Society call on all United Methodists to abstain from alcohol for Lent ?
What was the name of Wesley 's famous sermon in which he warned against the dangers of drinking ?
What does the United Methodist Church use in the sacrament of the Holy Communion ?
The UMC condemns what type of punishment ?
The UMC believes that Jesus abolished the death penalty in what Bible verse ?
The UMC believes that Jesus repudiated the les talionis in what BIble verses ?
What part of the UMC calls for its bishops to uphold opposition to capital punishment ?
The UMC prohibits the celebration of what type of unions ?
In what year was the trial of Rev . Jimmy Creech ?
In what year was same-sex marriage legalized nationwide ?
What is the governing committee that voted in favor of a proposal that would permit ministers to officiate same-sex weddings ?
Many organizations have recently called for broader acceptance of which community ?
Many conferences have taking a position by voting in favor of what ?
In what year was Rose Mary Denman defrocked for openly living with a same-sex partner ?
In what year was Irene Elizabeth Stroud convicted in a church trial ?
What group has approved the appointment of an openly partnered lesbian to the provisional diaconate ?
What does the UMC oppose as incompatible with the teaching of Scripture ?
The church states that , as Christians , they are aware that neither the way of what is righteous before God ? "
The Church supports those persons who conscientiously oppose what ?
The UMC maintains that war is incompatible with what ?
The Church rejects was as an instrument of what ?
What does the UMC endorse under strict and effective international control ?
Which task force states that pornography is harmful ?
The UMC teaches that pornography is about what ?
According to the UMC , persons who are addicted to pornography have altered perceptions of whom ?
The UMC supports federal funding for research on embryos created for what purpose ?
The UMC supports research on what cells retrieved from umbilical cords ?
The UMC stands in oppopsition to the creation of embroys for the sake of what ?
What is the revised version of The Book of Common Prayer called ?
When did John Wesley provide a revised version of The Book of Common Prayer ?
The Sunday Service of the Methodists in North America was a revised version of what book ?
In what country does some clergy in the UMC occasionally practice exorcism ?
Many liturgies are derived from what book ?
Healing services involve the laying on of hands and what else ?
What may be named after a biblical figure ?
Who is the founder of the Salvation Army ?
Who is Methodism 's revered founder ?
What church is organized into conferences ?
What is the only organization which may speak officially for the church ?
What book is revised after every General Conference ?
What is the highest level of the UMC ?
How often does the General Conference meet ?
The United States is divided into how many jurisdictions ?
How many central conferences are outside of the United States ?
What is the main purpose of the jurisdictions and central conferences ?
Who are the chief administrators of the church ?
What consist of one ore more Annual Conferences ?
Who makes decisions in between the four-year meetings ?
The Mission Council usually consists of whom ?
In March 2007 , the Mission Council of the South Central jurisdiction approved a 99-year lease on how many acres ?
Why was the 36 acres leased ?
Where is the George W. Bush Presidential library ?
How many members make up the Judicial Council ?
What is the highest court in the United Methodist denomination ?
How long is the term of a Judicial Council member ?
How many times a year does The Council meet ?
Where does The Council meet ?
What is the basic unit of organization within the UMC ?
The term Annual Conference is often used to refer to what ?
Clergy are members of what group rather than of any local congregation ?
What is the guidebook for local churches and pastors ?
What is the least number of members a board of trustees can have ?
What is the greatest number of members a board of trustees can have ?
What is an annual meeting of all the officers of the church and any interested members ?
Which committee has the exclusive power to set pastors ' salaries ?
The UMC established and is affiliated with approximately how many colleges and universities in the U.S. ?
How many schools and institutions does the church operate overseas ?
Most schools established by the UMC are members of what group ?
Who ordained the first Methodist clergy ?
Clergy usually serve as what in local congregations ?
Elders in full connection are each a member of what ?
Each deacon in full connection is a member of what ?
What is composed of the Area Provost/Dean ad the several District Superintendents of the Districts in the Annual Conference ?
All clergy appointments are made for how long ?
No appointment is official fixed until what occurs ?
Who is called by God , affirmed by the church and ordained by a bishop ?
Who appoints elders ?
How many years do Elders serve as provisional Elders prior to their ordination ?
Who may assign Elders ?
Deacons serve a term of how many years as provisional deacons ?
Who gives leadership , preaches the Word and conducts marriages , among other duties ?
Who assist elders in the sacraments of Holy Communion and Baptism ?
What are Deacons granted if they are appointed as pastor in a local church ?
In what year was the ordination order of transitional deacon abolished ?
What is the title for a seminary graduate who serves a two-three-year term in full-time appointment after being commissioned ?
What provided for the creation of new orders known as " provisional elder ? "
What is a local pastor 's official title ?
Who has the authority of a pastor only within the context and during the time of the appointment ?
How many years must a local pastor attend a course of study at United Methodist approved seminary ?
What type of membership will allow local pastors to retire as clergy ?
What are members who have been baptized as an infant or child but who have not subsequently professed their own faith ?
How to Baptized Members become Professing Members ?
Name one way in which a person can become a Professing Member ?
Unlike confirmation and profession of faith , what is a sacrament in the UMC ?
How do students learn about the church ?
What directions the local church to offer membership preparation to all people ?
What do students learn about in confirmation and membership preparation classes ?
Local church and certified are two types of what ?
How can someone be recognized as local church lay servant ?
How often must local lay servant reapply ?
How many courses must a local lay servant take ?
What is one tradition within the Christian Church ?
What type of status did the UMC vote to seek in the National Association of Evangelicals ?
Some in the UMC feel that false ecumenism might result in what ?
In what year was the Commission on Pan Methodist Cooperation and Union formed ?
When did the UMC enter into full communion with several churches ?
Since what year has the UMC been exploring a possible merger with three historically African-American denominations ?
At the time of its formation , how many members did the UMC have ?
At the time of its formation , how many congregations did the UMC have ?
In 2005 , approximately how many members were in the UMC ?
In 2005 , approximately how many congregations were in the UMC ?
Which state has the largest number of members ?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference , what was the total UMC membership ?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference , what was the total UMC membership in the U.S. ?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference , what was the total UMC membership overseas ?
Which group seeks to reconceive and promote Biblical holiness in today 's church ?
What is an interdenominational group composed of various churches to promote the Gospel throughout the world ?
When did delegates to the World Methodist Council vote to adopt the joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification ? "
When was the French and Indian War ?
Who fought in the French and Indian war ?
How many people were in French North American Colonies ?
How many people were in British North American Colonies ?
Where was war fought ?
How did war start ?
When did violence start in war ?
When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about attack on the french ?
How successful was initial effort by Braddock ?
Why did British operation fail in 1755 , 56 , 57 ?
In 1755 what fort did British capture ?
What order did British make of French ?
Who increased British military resources in colonies ?
How much resources were French placing in North America ?
Where was France concentraing efforts ?
Where were British defeated in Canada ?
What territory was ceded to Britain ?
What land was ceded to Spain ?
What was the significance of British win ?
When was King George 's war ?
What is the confusion of the French and Indian war ?
What was the Seven Years War ?
What are other alternative names for French and Indian War ?
What time framd does the Seven Years War cover ?
How long did the fighting last in Seven Years War ?
When was Montreal captured ?
What was first battle in 1754 ?
What was French population in North America ?
Where were French North Americans settled ?
Where did French fur trappers travel ?
What was the ratio of British settler to French ?
Where did British settlers live ?
Where were populations centered in colonies ?
In between French and British , what groups controlled land ?
What tribes were in Father Le Loutre 's War ?
Where did Iroquois Confederation control ?
What rule did some native live under ?
What are the Siouan-speaking tribes ?
What areas did French recruit natives from ?
What tribes supported British ?
What was Frensh military presence at start of war ?
How much British military was in North America at start of War ?
What was normal British defense ?
What was extent of Celeron 's expedition ?
Who was on Celeron 's expedition ?
How did Celeron handle business on trip ?
How did Natives in Logstown take Celeron 's information ?
Where did Old Briton call home ?
How did Celeron handle meeting with Old Briton ?
What was Old Briton 's response to Celeron ?
How did Celeron feel about Native relations ?
How were leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition ?
How did William Shirley feel about French advancement ?
When did British government give land for development of Ohio Country ?
Who was given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country ?
Who explored Ohio territory in 1750 ?
What agreement was made for trade with natives and British ?
According to agreement between Iroquois and British , where was a strong house to be built ?
What was the North American portion of War of Austrian Succession ?
What was the end of the War of the Austrian Succession ?
What issues were not addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle ?
When a commission reached no decision , what happened ?
What Governor in charge of New France died in 1752 ?
How many were in Langlades expedition ?
Was was the plan for Langlades mission ?
What was result of French attack of trading centre ?
Who took command of French in spring of 1753 ?
Where did Marin build first fort ?
Where was Marin 's second fort constructed ?
What was Marin 's orders ?
What native chief travelled to French fort and threatened Marin ?
What was William Johnson 's role in British military ?
What was William Johnson 's Iroquois name ?
What title did Iroquois give Johnson ?
Who was the speaker of the tribal council ?
Governon Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significan company ?
Who did Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory ?
Who was added to party as Washington went on the way ?
When did Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf ?
Who invited Washington to dine with him ?
What letter did Washington present to Saint-Pierre ?
How did Saint-Pierre respond to Washington ?
Why did French feel they had right to Ohio claim ?
How many men did Duquesne send to relieve Saint-Pierre ?
When did British begin to build fort under William Trent ?
What was the fort that was being built to be named ?
Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area , what did Washington do ?
What were casualties of battle ?
Why was Tanaghrisson supporting British efforts ?
What was the goal of Braddock 's expedition ?
When did French learn about Braddock 's plans ?
How did King Louis XV respond to British plans ?
What were British plans against French ?
What political response was convening in June/July 1754 ?
What was the goal of congress ?
Was the plan formalized ?
What was the importance of the congress ?
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1755 ?
How much success did this expedition with Braddock find ?
How many casualties did British get ?
What future Revolutionary key figures participated in this attack ?
Whose activities were the French able to gain knowledge of ?
What difficulties was Shirly having ?
Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego was to be attacked ?
Who did Shirley leave at Oswego ?
Who was New France 's governor ?
How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as larger threat ?
Who won the battle of Lake George ?
Where did Johnson stop ?
Where was French withdrawal to ?
Who captured Fort Beausejour ?
How were British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg ?
What other clashes were involved in taking Louisbourg ?
After Braddock died , who controlled North American British forces ?
In what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1756 ?
What proposed attacks did Shirley plan ?
Where was Shirley planning an expedition ?
Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756 ?
Who led New France reinforcements in 1756 ?
When did England formally declare war on France ?
Where was there a weakness in British supply chain ?
What was the attack on the British weakness ?
How much gun powder was destroyed in attack ?
What plans of the British did this attach on Oneida Carry set back ?
Who refused to act until Loudoun approved plans ?
Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic advancement ?
Where did Moncalm slip away to attack , left largely unprotected ?
What disagreement did Montcalm and Indians have ?
What was Loudoun 's plans for 1757 ?
What was the purpose of Loudoun 's troops at Fort Henry ?
Who ordered Loudoun to attack Louisbourg ?
Given the strength of French forces at Louisbourg , what did Loudoun do ?
What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1757 ?
On what lake did troops attack fort willima henry in winter ?
During withdrawal from Fort William Henry , what did some Indian allies of French do ?
What was causing New France to have issues with resupplying ?
What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult winter ?
Where was Montcalm focusing the defense for New France ?
What led to Newcastle 's fall from power as military advisor ?
Who did Abercrombie replace as commander in chief ?
Pitt 's plan called for what attacks ?
How many of the Pitt 's planned expeditions were successful ?
How many Frenchman won Battle of Carillon ?
How many troops were defeated for British in BAttle of Carillon ?
What success did Abercrombie gain out of the defeat at Carillon ?
What impact did this loss have on Abercrombie ?
In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul 's plan for focused military efforts ?
How successful was the French revised efforts ?
What naval battles did France lose in 1759 ?
Who defeated Montcalm at Quebec ?
What was the significance of victory at Forth Niagara for British ?
What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1760 ?
What victory at thwarted efforts of French relief ships .
In Sept 1760 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal ?
What were requests made to British ?
What British General negotiated at Montreal ?
When did the North American French and Indian War end ?
When was the European portion of the Seven Years War complete ?
What choice did French have for surrendering land ?
Why did France choose to give up continental lands ?
How many French colonists were gained by British ?
When was the deportation of Acadians ?
Where did British resettle many Acadians ?
Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions , what North American city did many move to ?
Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763 ?
What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1763 ?
What lands were reserved for natives ?
Where did many Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida ?
What made Ohio Country vulnerable ?
When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory complete ?
What natives were displaced by British takeover in Florida ?
What did the loss mean to France ?
What concept did philosophers in antiquity use to study simple machines ?
What was the belief that maintaining motion required force ?
Who had mathmatical insite ?
How long did it take to improve on Sir Isaac Newton 's laws of motion ?
Who develped the theory of relativity ?
What has partical physics made to describe sub-atomic forces ?
What are the exchanged particles predicted by the standard Model ?
What is the strongest main interaction ?
What is the weakest main interaction ?
What are weak and electromatic forces expressions of ?
Who provided a philosophical discussion of force ?
What was the concept of force an integral part of ?
How many elements did Aristotle believe the terrestrial sphere to be made up of ?
Where did Aristotle believe the natural place for earth and water elements ?
What did Aristotle refer to forced motion as ?
When were the shortcomings of Aristotle 's physics overcome ?
Whose work corrected Aristotle 's physics in the seventeenth century ?
What did objects in forced motion contain according to the late Medieval idea that influence Aristotle ?
Who experimented by rolling stones and canonballs down a steep incline ?
What force acted on bodies to retard their velocity ?
Whose First Law of Motion says that unless acted upon be forces , objects would continue to move at a constant velocity ?
What insight of Galileo was associated with constant velocity ?
Who proposed that innate intertial is the natural state of objects ?
What law connects relative velocities with inertia ?
What are the laws of physics of Galileo , in reference to objest in motion and rest ?
What does n't change from being at rest to movement at a constant velocity ?
What path does a ball thrown up and down in a moving vehicle take when seen by an outside observer ?
What sate are things inside of a moving vehicle as seen by a person inside the vehicle ?
What applies to equally to constant velocity motion as it does to rest .
What concept explains why objects continue in constant motion ?
What makes day length constant on Earth ?
Who explained that inertial reference frames equaled reference frames subject to constant acceleration ?
What do astronaughts experience while in free-fall ?
What was the basis mentioned for the develpment of the general theory of relativity ?
What describes the proportionality of acceleration to force and mass ?
What kind of measurements define accelerlations ?
What has an equivalence between mass and space-time ?
What is missing a theory on quantum gravity ?
In Newton 's second law , what are the units of mass and force in relation to microscales ?
When forces are from the presence of differnet objects , what law gives symmetry ?
What law staes that forces are interactions between bodies ?
What kind of force does not exist under Newton 's third law ?
What is the equality of forces between two objects exerting force on each other ? ?
What experiences acceleration when external force is applied to a system ?
In what kind of system of particles are there no unbalanced iinternal forces ?
What is the magnitude of force divided by when external force is added ?
What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces ?
What is used to quantify the intuitive undestanding of forces ?
What offers a conceptual definition of force ?
How are laboratory measurements of forces determined ?
How are forces classified with regard to push and pull strengt ?
What physical quantities do not have direction ?
How do you avoid problems when determining forces involved on an object from two or more sources ?
If you do not know both magnitude and direction of two forces on an object , what would you call that situation ?
How do you determine the acceleration of a rope when two people are pulling it ?
In what conditions were forces first measured historically ?
What do forces have with regard to additive quantities ?
What is the resultant force called when two forces act on a particle ?
When forces are acting on an extended body , what do you need to account for motion effects ?
What geometric shape is used in equations to determine net force ?
Whwn forces are at right ngles to each other what can they be broken down to ?
If a force is pointing horizontally to the northeast , how many forces can you split the force into ?
What do you get when you figure the sum of forces with vector addition ?
What are the independant components of a vector sum that has been determined by scalar addition of individual vectors ?
What can orthogonal forces be when there are three components with two at right angles to each other ?
What can keep an object from moving when it is being pushed on a surface ?
What is generated between a surface and an object that is being pushed ?
Static friction balances what force when there is no movement of an object on a surface ?
What makes static friction go up or down in responce to contact characteristics between an object and the surface it is on ?
What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces by using static equilibrium ?
What force acts on an object suspended on a spring scale in addition to gravity ?
What equals the spring reaction force on an object suspended on a spring reaction scale ?
Objects of constant density are proportional to volume by what force to define standard weights ? .
Who expounded the Three Laws of Motion ?
Who first described dynamic equilibrium ?
What does motion at a constant velocity equal ?
Who had the idea of a natural state for objects at rest ?
Where will a canonball dropped from the crow 's nest of a ship land according to Aristotle ?
Where does a canonball dropped from the crow 's nest of a ship actually land ?
What occurs when traveling across a surface at a constant velocity with regard to friction ?
What directly opposes the force applied to move an object across a surface ?
What has to accounted for that causes no net force being the cause of constant velocity motion ?
Who thought that applied force caused movement of an object regardless of non-zero velocity ?
What equation currently decribes the physics of force .
What equation desribed the physics of force before the current Schrodinger equation ?
How are the forces derived from fields treated similarly to ?
What type of measurements result under Schrodinger equations when using operators instead of Newtonian variables ?
What notion keeps it 's meaning through both Netonian and Schrodinger physics equations ?
What is the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another ?
What is the principle about relating spin and space variables ?
What value does the seperating into fermions and bosons depend ?
If the apparant force of two fermions is attractive , what is the spin function ?
If the apparant force of two fermions is repulsive , what is the spin function ?
How are the particle forces and accelerations explained as by gauge bosons exchange ?
What is the redundant concept coming from momentum conservation ?
What is more fundamental than force in quanton field theory ?
What diagrams are used to simplify particle interactions on a fundamental level ?
Matter particles are shown as what kind of lines in a Feynman diagram ?
How many interactions are all of the universal forces based on ?
What nuclear forces only act at short distances ?
What force acts between electric charges ?
What do gravitational forces act between ?
What prohibits atoms from passing through each other ?
Who formed the universal theory of gravitation ?
In what century was quantum mechanics made ?
What kind of self-consistent models are physicists trying to make that would create a theory of everything ?
What type of physics model did Einstein fail to make ?
Who identified gravity as a force ?
Who came up with the concept that falling objects fell at the same speed regardless of weight ?
How fast do objects fall on Earth ?
Where was the measurment for the standard gravity on Earth taken ?
What is an object 's mass proportional to at the surface of the Earth ?
How might gravity effects be observed differently according to Newton ?
What could be attributed to gravity acceleration around the Earth ?
What is gravitational acceleration proportional to ?
What is included along with gravitational acceration , and mass of the Earth in a formula about rotation about the Earth ?
What is used to figure the relative strengh of gravity ?
Who made the first to measure value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant ?
When was the first measurement of the value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant ?
Who figured out that his law of gravity had to be universal ?
What planet seemed to buck Newton 's gravitational laws ?
What planet did astrophysisist predict to explain the problems with Mercury ?
What theory accounted for the Mercury problem ?
Who came up with the theory of relativity ?
Who first showed that Newton 's Theory of Gravity was not as correct as another theory ?
What theory best explains gravity ?
What space-time path is seen as a curved line in space ?
What is the derivative of an object 's changing momentum called ?
In what sense must you be observing the curvature of space-time ?
What is the time rate of change of electric charge ?
What magnetic and electric force acts on a charge ?
What is the law named that defines a charge moving through a magnetic field ?
Whatare the electrostatic and magnetic force awritten as the sum of ?
Who first fully explained the origins of magnetic and electric fields ?
When did the origins of magnetic and electric fields occur ?
How many scalar equations were formed into a set by James Maxwell ?
How many vector equations did Heaviside and Gibbs reformilate Maxwell 's 20 scalar equtions into ?
Who discovered that magnetic and electric could self-generate ?
What was dificult to reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe ?
What was used to create a new electromagnetic theory to reconcile the troubles with electromagnetic theory as it used to stand ?
What did electromagnetic theory finally lead to ?
What are the wave-particles called that mediate all electromagnetic phenomena ?
What is QED short for ?
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity ?
What actually causes rigidity in matter ?
What is needed to pack electrons densely together ?
How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world ?
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity ?
What actually causes rigidity in matter ?
What is needed to pack electrons densely together ?
How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world ?
What does stong force act upon ?
What can be seen between hadrons ?
What is the force between nucleons ?
How are nuclear forces transmitted ?
What is the term for the lack of obsevable free quarks ?
What does the W and Z boson exchange create ?
What is the observable effect of W and Z boson exchange ?
What is the effect of beta decay ?
How many times less is the strenght of the weak field compared to the strong ?
At what temperature do weak and electromagnetic forces appear the same ?
What is the repulsive force of close range atom interaction ?
What occurs when electron clouds overlap from different atoms ?
What causes Pauli repulsion ?
What is the force that causes rigid strength in structures ?
What can be used to model tension forces ?
What do you use to let idea strings switch direction ?
In what way do idea strings transmit tesion forces ?
What is the final effect of adding more and more idea strings to a load ?
What can increase the tension force on a load ?
What did Newton 's mechanics affect ?
What did n't Newton 's mechanics affext ?
In what kind of fluid are pressure differences caused by direction of forces over gradients ?
What may a force on one part of an object affect ?
What does matter actually have that Newtonian mechanics does n't address ?
What causes strain in structures ?
What is used to calculate cross section area in the volume of an object ?
What are associated with normal forces ?
What includes pressure terms when calculating area in volume ?
What is the force equivalent of torque compared to angular momentum ?
What would change the rotational inertia of a body under Newton 's First Law of Motion ?
To calculate instant angular acceleration of a rigid body what would you use ?
Where does centripetal force go ?
How do centripetal forces act in relation to vectors of velocity ?
What force changes an objects direction of travel ?
What is another word for centripetal force ?
What is resposible for speeding up or slowing down an object ?
What is the only form potential energy can change into ?
What is the only form kinetic energy can change into ?
What is preserved in a closed system of forces when acted upon ?
What is the force between two locations related to ?
What is the force called rgarding a potential field between two locations ?
What is sometimes impossible to model ?
Why are some forces due to that are impossible to model ?
What do electrostatic gradiient potentials create ?
Tension , compression , and drag are what kind of forces ?
In what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described ?
What changes macroscopic closed system energies ?
What is the exchange of heat associated with ?
What is the law of thermodynamics associated with closed system heat exchange ?
What makes energy changes in a closed system ?
What is the metric term less used than the Newton ?
What is the kilogram-force sometimes reffered to as ?
What is a very seldom used unit of mass in the metric system ?
What seldom used term of a unit of force equal to 1000 pound s of force ?
What is the seldom used force unit equal to one thousand newtons ?
